D: What brings you in here today?
P: Yeah, I have this pain in my chest.
D: Okay, and where is the pain exactly?
P: It's just right over on the. On the left side.
D: Okay, and when did this pain start?
P: It started just 30 minutes ago.
D: Okay, and did it just come on randomly or were you doing something strenuous?
P: I was just shoveling the driveway and it came on.
D: Okay, and has that pain been getting worse at all over the last half an hour?
P: No, it just came on suddenly and it's. Sorry. Yeah, the pain has been there this whole time and it's gotten worse ever since it started.
D: Okay, and how would you describe the pain? Is it kind of like an aching pain or is it a sharp or tight tightness kind of pain? How would you describe it?
P: It feels dull. I feel like there's a lot of pressure on my chest.
D: Okay, and how do you rate the pain right now on a scale of 0 to 10? 0 being the least amount of pain you felt in your life, 10 being the worst?
P: Seven.
D: Seven. Okay. Have you had any similar episodes before?
P: No, I've never had any chest pain before.
D: Okay, and is the pain just staying in the region, the left chest area that you mentioned, or is it traveling to any other part of your body?
P: No, I'm kind of just feeling it right here on the left side.
D: Okay. Is there anything that you do that makes the pain either get worse or go away or, like, get better?
P: I think it's a bit. Bit worse if I'm moving around or when I was walking in here. I think it. It made it a bit worse, but nothing has seemed to make it any better since it's starting.
D: Okay. And does it change at all from you changing positions, like, if you're standing up versus sitting down or laying down?
P: I think it's a little bit worse when. When I'm laying down.
D: Okay. And other than the pain that you've been having, have you been having any other symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing or any pain when you're breathing in or out?
P: I've felt a little bit short of breath or having difficulty breathing since yesterday when the. Sorry. Since the pain started, but just the difficulty breathing.
D: Okay. And have you recently injured your chest or surrounding area at all, like from fall or anything like that?
P: I do play rugby and was tackled by another player yesterday, but. But my chest felt fine after that.
D: Okay, so. But the pain just started half an hour ago?
P: Yeah.
D: Okay. Have you been traveling at all recently?
P: No. Been at home.
D: Okay. Has anyone around you been sick at all?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. Have you been having any symptoms like nausea or vomiting or any fevers or chills?
P: No nausea or vomiting, but I do feel a little bit hot today.
D: Okay. Have you measured your temperature at all?
P: I did, and it was 38 degrees.
D: Okay. And have you been having any kind of swelling in your legs or feet?
P: No swelling in my legs.
D: Okay. Have you been feeling tired at all, like increasingly fatigued?
P: No, my energy has been good.
D: Okay. Have you been having any kind of thumping or palpitations or feel like your heart has been racing at all?
P: It does feel like it's beating faster right now. It usually only feels like this when I'm playing sports.
D: Okay. And have you noticed any changes in your skin at all, any rashes?
P: No rashes.
D: Okay. Have you had any cough or runny nose or sore throat, any kind of those symptoms in. In the past month?
P: A few weeks ago my nose was a little runny, but that went away on its own. I haven't had any cough.
D: Okay, and have you been feeling dizzy at all or have you fainted?
P: No. Dizziness and. No, I haven't fainted at all.
D: Okay, just a few more questions. Have you had any diagnosis made by any physician, anything like diabetes or high blood pressure?
P: Yeah, I've been told I have high cholesterol and high blood pressure.
D: Okay, and do you take any medications for these things?
P: I do take medications for both blood pressure and cholesterol. Rosuvastatin and lisinopril, and I take a multivitamin.
D: Okay. And do you have any allergies to any medications at all?
P: No allergies.
D: Okay. Have you at all in the past been hospitalized for any reason?
P: No hospitalizations, any previous surgeries? No.
D: Okay. And within your family, has anyone passed away from a heart attack or any cancers that weren't in the family?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. And currently, right now, do you live alone? Do you live with someone? And where do you live? Like an apartment house?
P: I living in a house with my parents.
D: Okay. And do you currently work?
P: Yeah, I drive a bus for the city.
D: Okay. And in your daily routine, would you say you get enough exercise throughout the week?
P: Yeah, usually on Sundays I'll go for a run.
D: Okay. And how about your diet? How's your diet? Like, just regularly.
P: Usually. I feel like it's fairly balanced overall. I might eat out a little bit too often, but try to eat as many vegetables as I can.
D: Okay. And do you smoke cigarettes at all?
P: I do, yes. I've been smoking for the last 20 years, roughly.
D: Okay, how much do you smoke on an average day?
P: About a half a pack to a pack a day.
D: Okay. And do you drink?
P: No alcohol.
D: Okay. And any recreational drugs like marijuana?
P: No marijuana, but I have used crystal meth in the past.
D: Okay, and when was the last time that you used crystal meth?
P: Six days ago.
D: Six days ago. Okay. And how often do you use crystal method?
P: I would say a couple of times a month.
D: Okay. All right. And for how long have you been using crystal now?
P: For the last seven years.
D: Seven years. Okay. All right, thank you.
