D: Would you mind by starting with what brought you in today?
P: Yeah, so I'm just coming in with my son. He's 6 years old, and yeah, just over the last few days, he's not been himself, and he's been having this stomach ache, which started around, like, I would say, three days ago. And then he's also having vomiting for the last two days. He's vomited in total six times over the last two days. And then yesterday he also developed a fever as well. I managed to measure it, and it was 38.3 degrees Celsius.
D: Okay, I see. So just so that I'm understanding the timeline, so he started to have abdominal pain about three days ago, started with having vomiting and diarrhea two days ago. And you checked his temperature and he's had a fever as of yesterday? Yeah. Okay, and was there anything that he ate that was different over those last few days?
P: No, we've been strictly home food during the pandemic. Like, no real changes.
D: Okay, and what's his kind of behavior been like over these last couple of days?
P: Yeah, so at first with the stomach pain, he was a bit. Just irritable and just not himself. But especially yesterday with the fever. Just been very quiet and just kind of sleeping pretty much the whole day.
D: Okay, I see. And can you describe the vomit? Yeah.
P: So vomit, like it started two days ago. The first day was just like he puked up things that he had eaten. But yesterday it was. It was mainly just like. Like this yellowish material. I couldn't really tell if it was food or not.
D: Okay, have you noticed any bile or blood in the vomit?
P: No, I didn't notice any blood and I didn't notice any green material. It was mainly just like. Like normal vomit, like, yellowish color.
D: Okay, I see. And has the. What was the vomiting triggered by anything that you're aware of, like eating or drinking?
P: Yeah, two days ago it was. It was after. After lunch when he first vomited, but after that it's just been kind of random.
D: I see. Okay, and in regards to his diarrhea, has there been any blood or any color changes?
P: No, I didn't notice any blood at all. It's definitely just very watery. And he's had to go probably even just in the last day, probably around like six or seven times.
D: Okay, and he's vomited how many times?
P: So in total, I can count six times.
D: Okay, and has he been complaining of any headaches at all?
P: No, not that I know of.
D: No. Okay, and how about any ear pain or eye pain?
P: No, not that he's mentioned to me.
D: Okay. And any eye redness?
P: Nope.
D: Okay. And has he had a runny nose?
P: No, not really.
D: Okay, and has he had a sore throat or any pain with swallowing?
P: No.
D: Okay, has he had any loss of taste or loss of smell?
P: No, not that he's mentioned to me, though.
D: Okay, and has he had a cough?
P: No, not really.
D: Okay, and how about any shortness of breath or wheezing?
P: No.
D: Okay. And has he had any pain anywhere? Any chest pain?
P: He did point to his stomach, like, it seems like he was having. With all the vomiting, like he was having some stomach pain as well.
D: Okay. Is there any specific location that he's feeling the pain?
P: It's hard to say. He was just pointing at the center of his belly. Like, I don't know if it's. Like, I tried pressing on it and he didn't feel any pain then, but I think it's just kind of all over his stomach.
D: Okay, and has he had any urinary problems, like painful voiding or been peeing more often?
P: No, that's been.
D: Okay. Have you noticed any rashes or skin changes?
P: No, not really. No.
D: Okay, and has he had any muscle aches or joint pains that he's mentioned?
P: No, he hasn't mentioned anything like that.
D: Okay, and he's had a fever. Has he had chills?
P: Yeah, so that's what I. That prompted me to take his temperature yesterday around the afternoon. Like, we had to wrap him up in, like, more than two blankets, and he was still feeling cold, so, yeah, definitely he was having chills.
D: Okay. And has there been any concerns with his growth and either weight or height?
P: No, he's been going along the charts pretty well. Like, no concerns during his growth. Otherwise, he's a very healthy child.
D: Okay, so no medical diagnoses previously?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. And is he meeting all developmental milestones? Okay. Gross. Motor. Fine motor. Doing well at school? Yeah.
P: Didn't have any issues with walking, running? He's pretty social with all his peers. He's doing well at school. No complaints.
D: Okay, excellent. And no medical conditions. But has there been any reasons for being in the hospital before?
P: No, not at all. We haven't really gone to the doctor with him after, like, all those vaccinations that you had to do. So he's been good.
D: Okay, great. So immunizations are up to date?
P: Yeah, immunizations, all up to date.
D: Excellent. And does he have any allergies?
P: No, not anything that we know of yet.
D: Okay. And just wanted to ask about his birth history. Were there any Complications throughout pregnancy. Either mom being sick or having any issues herself?
P: No. So it was a normal vaginal delivery, no issues. He was born at 39 weeks. Didn't need to stay in the hospital at all. Yeah, it was a pretty smooth pregnancy compared to some of the other ones.
D: Okay. Oh, that's. That's great. Do you remember Apgar score or his birth weight?
P: I don't exactly remember his Apgar scores. I think they were like, just, just. They were normal. Like there was nothing concerning about them. And birth weight? I think he was probably around three, three kilograms.
D: Okay, great. So, yeah, healthy birth weight at term, it sounds like. And so healthy. Does he take any medications regularly?
P: No, no medications.
D: Okay. And can you tell me about who he's living with currently and who's looking after him?
P: Yeah, so he's living with myself, his mother, and then my husband. And he has two older siblings. One is a boy, seven years old, and another one like a ten year old girl.
D: Okay. And has anybody in the house been sick?
P: No, no one has been sick recently. However, he does, they did let them go back into school at one point, so I don't know. I don't know.
D: So that was just last week.
P: So I don't know if he caught something from school.
D: Okay, but nobody that you know that's had similar symptoms?
P: No.
D: Okay. And have you traveled anywhere?
P: No, we've been. We've been at home.
D: Okay. And no recent changes to anything in the diet you've mentioned?
P: No, diet's been fine.
D: Okay. And any concerns for safety in the home, either, like physical or verbal abuse?
P: No, no concerns like that.
D: Okay. Yeah. A question that we have to ask everybody. And is there any smoking in the home?
P: No. No, we don't smoke.
D: Okay, great. And are there any pets?
P: No, no pets.
D: All right. And in the family, has there been anybody who's had any heart problems or any lung problems?
P: We are getting the 10 year old tested for just asthma.
D: Okay.
P: But nothing diagnosed yet? No.
D: Okay. Anybody in the family have any congenital diseases or any genetic diseases?
P: No, not that I know of.
D: Okay. Anybody in the family have celiac disease or Crohn's disease?
P: No. No history of any kind of bowel diseases.
D: Okay. So I think that's everything I wanted to ask about today. Was there anything that maybe I forgot to ask or that I missed that you wanted to tell me?
P: Yeah, no, it's also just like I was just reading up. Can it be like. I don't know if it can be Covid as well, if it can do.
D: This as well, it is possible, especially with non specific symptoms. Covid can cause a variety of different presentations. And for some people, it can be more gastrointestinal issues like your son has with vomiting and diarrhea and belly pain. But it also could be.
P: Another type.
D: Of gastrointestinal virus itself, or a viral illness like the common cold, which can also end up causing symptoms like this as well. So we will go ahead and do a COVID test today along with some other blood work and maybe increase the hydration as well. It sounds like he has lost a lot of fluid over these last couple of days. So we'll check electrolytes and go from there on the test results.
P: All right, Sounds good. Thank you so much.
