D: What brings you in here today?
P: Yeah, hi. I have a pain in my belly. It started a couple hours ago.
D: Okay. And where exactly in your belly do you have this pain?
P: It's mostly up here on the right side.
D: The right side. Okay. And can you describe what kind of pain is it? Is it like a dull pain, a sharp pain, an aching pain?
P: I. I guess it's a. It's an aching pain. I'd say it kind of just. It would initially just come and go, but now it just. It's staying. It's not going away.
D: Okay. And so it's in the right area. Does it travel anywhere elsewhere besides from the right side?
P: No.
D: Okay. And on a scale of 1 to 10, one being the least amount of pain you felt in your life and 10 being the worst, how much would you rate it right now?
P: It's about a. I'd say a 10. An 8.
D: Maybe an 8. Okay.
P: Yeah.
D: And so just to clarify, when did it start?
P: So about eight hours ago.
D: Eight hours ago. Okay. And were you doing anything before? Like, did you have a meal or were you asleep and it woke you up? What was going on before you had the pain?
P: I was just about to go to sleep. I wasn't doing anything in particular at the time.
D: Okay, and has it been getting worse since it first started?
P: Oh, yeah, definitely. It would come and go, but now for the past, I'd say five to six hours, it's been constant. It's just there all the time.
D: Okay, and have you had any similar pain like this in the past?
P: Yeah, I have the same pain that sort of comes and goes after I eat. Usually after I've had something like something fatty, something from outdoors, maybe like a burger or fries or something. I initially thought it was indigestion, but I don't know what's going on now.
D: Okay, and does anything make it better or worse? Anything that you've tried?
P: Well, I guess eating sometimes makes it worse, but I don't think there's anything that's making it better.
D: Have you tried any medications at all?
P: I tried Tylenol, but that didn't do anything.
D: Okay, and besides the pain that you're having, do you have any nausea or vomiting?
P: I am a little nauseous, but no, I didn't. I haven't vomited yet, no.
D: Okay. And have you been having any fevers?
P: I don't think so. I haven't checked, but I don't feel feverish.
D: Any sweats or, like, chills?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: Okay. Any changes in your bowel movements like constipation, diarrhea?
P: No.
D: Okay. Have you traveled anywhere recently?
P: No, I haven't.
D: Have you been feeling at all very tired, not your usual self fatigued?
P: Well, the pain is making it difficult for me to do things, but I guess I'm not a little fatigued, maybe.
D: Okay. Have you been having any changes in your urinary patterns?
P: No.
D: No. Any changes in your skin, any rashes, any yellowing of your skin?
P: Nothing that I've noticed. No, I don't think so.
D: Okay. Any changes in your urine color?
P: No.
D: Okay. Have you noticed blood in your stools at all?
P: I have not, no.
D: Okay. And how about your appetite? Has this changed at all?
P: Well, I guess because this pain happens, usually happens after I eat. I think I've been eating less than usual just because I don't want to, you know, I don't like the pain.
D: Okay. Any significant weight loss recently?
P: I don't think so.
D: Okay. Any recent infections recently at all?
P: No.
D: And otherwise, are you. Do you have any other medical conditions like diabetes, high blood pressure or anything else?
P: I do have diabetes, but that's about it, I think. Yeah.
D: And do you take anything for your diabetes?
P: I take metformin.
D: Okay. Do you take any other medications at all? No.
P: No, I don't.
D: Sorry. No. No worries. Do you have any allergies to any medications, any environmental allergies?
P: No, No, I don't.
D: Okay. Have you been hospitalized in the past?
P: Not. No, I haven't ever. I've been very. I've been healthy.
D: No hospitalizations, any past surgeries?
P: I got my wisdom teeth removed when I was a teenager.
D: Okay. Have you been in contact with anyone who has been ill recently?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: Okay. And in terms of your family history, has anyone had any cancers or any ibd, like Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis?
P: No, not that I know of.
D: Okay. Anything that runs in the family at all?
P: My dad had a heart attack when he was in his 60s, but that's it.
D: Okay. Okay. And currently, right now, do you work?
P: No, I'm laid off because of COVID Okay.
D: And currently, what is your home situation like?
P: What do you mean?
D: So do you live in an apartment, a house. And do you live with anyone?
P: I live in an apartment. I live alone.
D: And in terms of your daily routine, you feel that you get enough exercise? Do you go outside for walks or runs, anything like that?
P: I usually go out for a run, especially when it's a little bit warmer, which it now is.
D: And do you drink alcohol?
P: Sometimes.
D: How much would you say you drink in an average week?
P: One to two drinks a day.
D: Okay. And what do you usually drink?
P: I'll just drink a glass of wine at night. It just helps me relax.
D: Okay. And do you smoke cigarettes?
P: I don't know.
D: And do you use any recreational drugs, like marijuana?
P: No, I don't.
D: Okay. All right. So that's all the questions I have. And just to clarify, does your pain come and go or is it constant?
P: Yeah. So initially it would come and go.
D: Okay.
P: For the first two hours, it would come and go. And when I would have the Spain when I was eating, it would come and go. But over the past six hours, it's just been constant.
D: Okay. All right.
