D: So I understand you've been experiencing some abdominal pain.
P: Yeah, yeah. Stomach hurt? It started hurting more last couple of days. Maybe three days ago, I think.
D: Okay, so for three days ago. For the last three days, you said it's been hurting more. Did you have pain before that?
P: It felt weird, like crampy. I just. I just thought I was constipated because I've been. I haven't been able to be able to go to the bathroom as well. I just. I was kind of bloated a bit. But, yeah, about. About that time. Started to feel a little bit more painful.
D: Okay, can you tell me kind of where you're feeling the pain the most?
P: Yeah, kind of like near my right hip, like lower where my stomach is, but kind of right. And below my belly button. Sometimes a little bit on the top, just below my belly button, but mainly just in that right lower side, yeah.
D: Okay. Have you ever had pain like this in the past?
P: No, never.
D: Okay. And for the last three days, has it been pretty constant? Has it been on and off?
P: I feel it's been getting worse, to be honest.
D: Okay. Is there anything that you can think of this made it feel better?
P: Honestly, just resting flat makes it feel a little bit better, but nothing much, no.
D: Okay. Is there anything that makes it worse, touching it.
P: Also? I puked the other day. That made it definitely feel worse because that whole contraction, my body was nasty.
D: Okay. Was it just the one time?
P: Yeah.
D: Okay. You had nausea associated with it then. Okay. Does the pain stay in that same spot or does this move anywhere else?
P: It's pretty much stayed in that one spot, yeah.
D: Have you noticed any fevers lately?
P: Felt a bit hot the other day. Didn't take a temperature, though.
D: Okay. Okay. And what specifically prompted you to come in today to the emergency department?
P: I thought it was just gonna get better when it first started, maybe just a bit of gas, but here we are kind of Thursday now, and it's still pretty bad.
D: Okay. Have you been in contact with anyone that's been sick lately?
P: Not off the top of my head, no.
D: And have you traveled anywhere recently?
P: No.
D: And I forgot to ask, did you notice any changes to your bowel habits?
P: Yeah. Yeah. Before, I was fairly regular about once a day, maybe five days ago. Started getting constipated, a little bit, backed up, and pretty much the picture. I think last time I went to the bathroom was two days ago, I think. Yeah.
D: Okay, so I'm just gonna ask you some questions about your overall health. Do you have any chronic conditions that you see your family doctor for? Or any other doctor?
P: I got diabetes, type 2.
D: Okay. And is that generally. Has that been well controlled for you lately?
P: Most part. Doctor checks my sugars. I'm not too regular on them myself, but last time he changed his medications was a couple years back. And I've just been on the same ones ever since.
D: What medication are you currently taking?
P: Metformin. Metformin.
D: And have you ever had any surgeries in the past?
P: No, I had my teeth pulled as a kid. No.
D: All right. You still have your appendix?
P: Yeah, yeah, I never had that problem as a kid.
D: And do you have any allergies?
P: No. Sometimes get a little bit congested during the fall, but that's it.
D: Okay. Do you have any family history of gastrointestinal problems.
P: Like. No. I think my grandma died of breast cancer fairly early, but. No, not that. Not that I can think of.
D: And just in terms of your lifestyle, do you live here in town?
P: Yeah. Yeah, I live in London.
D: You live alone or with family?
P: No, I got family, me, the wife, got two kids. One of them's college bound now, but yeah.
D: Nice. And what do you do for work or are you retired?
P: I'm still working. I'm a production overseer. Production manager over at Fairbanks.
D: Okay. You're a big boss.
P: It took a while to get here.
D: I'm sure it was very hard work in general. Do you drink alcohol?
P: Yeah, like. Well, plan on drinking on the 2 4, but not regular. Special occasions, mainly. Hot days sometimes. I'll have a beer, too.
D: Sure. And do you smoke? Cigarettes?
P: No.
D: Have you ever smoked in the past?
P: No.
D: Okay. Do you use cannabis?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any other substances?
P: No.
D: Okay. Is there anything else you wanted to bring up today that I didn't ask you about or any other questions that you have?
P: No. Just hoping to get an answer to whatever's going on.
D: Okay. Okay. Well, at this point, I will do a quick physical exam. We might want to have blood work done, maybe some other tests based on what we find out from there. And then we can kind of let you know after that what the next steps will be. I'm just going to take this and go over it with the position that I'm working with. And we'll get back to you shortly. Thanks for chatting with me.
P: Thanks, doc.
