P: Hi.
D: What brings you to clinic today?
P: Hi. So I feel like I might have a bladder infection. I see a urologist because I've had some issues with, like, an overactive bladder for a while. I've had a few bladder infections in the past, and this is usually how. How they feel. I feel like a little bit of burning when I go to the bathroom, and I have to go, like, a lot right now. But then also sometimes it means that it gets like this when I have my period. And I don't have my period right now, but I could be getting it. But I also just don't want to let it keep going if I do have an infection. I'd just rather get it, like, treated if I do.
D: Okay, understood. When was your last period?
P: Like, two weeks ago?
D: About two weeks ago. Are you fairly regular?
P: Like, yes and no. It's. I'm not super irregular, but I sometimes have, like, it basically. It's like I alternate. Sometimes I. My cycles, like four weeks, and sometimes it's more like five.
D: Sorry, just clarify again. You're 30 years old.
P: Yeah, I'm 30.
D: Okay. Are you on your contraception right now?
P: No, I'm not.
D: Okay. Are you sexually active at all?
P: No.
D: No. Okay, so just in terms of your urinary tract infections, what was your last one?
P: I had one, like, three months ago.
D: Maybe three months ago. Okay. And they prescribed you antibiotics and it went away fairly quickly?
P: Yeah, yeah, it went away. Like, I always. I always have an overactive bladder and I always have to go pretty frequently, like every hour, sometimes half hour, but. So that's still there. But, like, it hasn't since then. I haven't had any, like, pain with it.
D: Okay, so you still have quite a. You have a quite a bit of urgency to go kind of. You go more frequently. But I suppose the new thing that you're a little bit concerned about is that it. It burns a little bit, stings a little bit when you do urinate. Am I understanding correctly?
P: Exactly. Like, for the past couple days, it's felt like that.
D: Okay. Has it been getting progressively worse at all?
P: Maybe a little bit. I feel like now I can recognize it pretty early when it's not too bad to kind of get ahead of it.
D: Okay, understood. And do you have any pain kind of behind your ribs at all on your back?
P: Sorry, can you repeat that?
D: You haven't had any pain on your back, middle back, kind of close to your ribs, have you?
P: Not that I can think of. Okay.
D: And have you noticed any changes to the quality of the urine? Oh, for example, has it looked frothy or smelled bad?
P: It maybe looked like a little cloudy, but nothing. Nothing else out of the ordinary. Like, I've never had blood in it or anything.
D: Understood. Have you noticed any visual changes in the area your vagina? No, not that I have lesions, anything like that? Anything concerned for an STI that you're worried about?
P: No. And, like, I haven't, like, had a sexual partner in a few years.
D: Understood. Understood. These are kind of questions that we ask when someone's having a little bit of maybe an issue holding in their urine. Have you ever felt any numbness or inability to feel kind of around your buttocks region, for example, when you wipe with tissue paper, can you feel that? Well.
P: Oh, yeah, I can feel everything.
D: Okay. And no changes to your poops, to your bowel movements?
P: No, it's been pretty normal.
D: Okay. And how do you feel otherwise?
P: Oh, I mean, I feel a little tired. I felt like, a little hot yesterday. I don't have a thermometer, so I didn't take my temperature. But, you know, sometimes I feel a little hot, like when I've had the infections before.
D: Okay. You don't have any swelling on your. Anywhere on your body, on your ankles, do you?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. And then. So no puffiness around your eyes that you've noticed?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Any rashes or any changes on your face.
P: Like my mom said? I saw my mom earlier and she said I looked like, a little flushed. But it's not like a rash or anything?
D: No. No markings across the bridge of your nose and your cheeks?
P: No.
D: Okay. And then in regards otherwise, you're feeling a little flush, a little tired. Any other medical issues that you have?
P: No, just this, like, overactive bladder thing.
D: Okay. And have they given you any medications for it?
P: We tried a few different ones before. Now I get. I get Botox injections into the bladder, like, maybe twice a year.
D: Anything else that you've used recently? Like, any medications you're on right now? I suppose?
P: No, nothing. No, nothing else. I guess I have, like, I have an inhaler, but I don't use it all the time. Like, I haven't had to in a long time.
D: Oh, so you have asthma?
P: Yeah. Like, I. I honestly don't feel like I have it very much now, but I still have, like, I still have the inhaler.
D: Understood. Understood. Anything else you've taken medications for in the past?
P: I used to take birth control, like the pill. But, like, I just. I don't have a boyfriend right now, and I just didn't really feel like I needed it otherwise.
D: Understood, Understood. And have you had any past surgeries?
P: I had my appendix out when I was 24. That's it though.
D: Okay, got it. And then just in terms of you yourself, do you live in London?
P: Yeah, yeah I do.
D: Okay. What do you do for work?
P: I work at a bank.
D: Do you have any children?
P: No.
D: Okay, and in regards to anything. So any sick contacts?
P: No.
D: Any recent travel?
P: No.
D: Any allergies?
P: Like sometimes in the spring I'll get a little stuffy but okay.
D: Sounds great. Nothing too concerning? No drug allergies?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Got it, Got it. Okay, I think what now I'll do next. I'll move to a physical exam I think we might just do some investigations just in order to get some more information and then the physician will come in to see you.
P: Okay, cool. Thank you.
D: No problem.
