D: What brings you in?
P: Hi. I'm here with my daughter. We noticed that since yesterday, she's been having this pain just in her elbow. And, like, today we've noticed, like, after she woke up, she's just been in pain. And also just keeping her elbow, like, protected, kind of, like just flexing it and just holding onto it. So I think it's giving her a lot of discomfort. And she's been crying as well?
D: Oh, yeah, for sure. When did this start?
P: I think it started after we went for a walk last evening and we just went to the park. And since then she's been having that pain.
D: Okay. Okay. Did anything happen to trigger this? Did she fall on that arm or, like, injuries?
P: I think, like, just she was playing, and then she was about to fall, like, right. Like, right onto the playground pavement. So I remember, like. But I, like, caught her right away, so to protect her. And then since then, I don't know if, like, there was, like, a jerk movement as, like, I kind of pulled her back up or when I was stopping her from falling, like, if that caused it. But she didn't hit herself or anything like that.
D: Okay. All right. And in terms of the type of pain she's having right now, did she say if it was a dull, achy kind of pain or is it sharp?
P: She says it's aching a lot.
D: Okay. And has it been constant since she started experiencing this, or does it come and go?
P: It's been pretty constant since then. And yeah, she just kind of keep. It's keeping. She's kind of keep. Just keeping it, like, her arms extended and then. Yeah, just holding on to it.
D: Okay, and then is the pain just in the elbow or does it radiate down into her hands or up to her shoulders?
P: It kind of goes into her upper arm, like, from her elbows to her upper arm.
D: Okay. Have you tried anything for this pain?
P: No, I haven't tried any medications or anything. I just wanted to come in before I try anything.
D: Yeah, 1 to 10, 10 being the worst type of pain. How bad is this pain for her?
P: I would say it's probably at least a seven.
D: Okay, and then has she ever experienced pain like this in the past?
P: No, this is the first time.
D: Okay, and then does she have any numbness or tingling in the area?
P: No, not that I know of.
D: Okay, how about memory loss or confusion?
P: No.
D: Any headaches?
P: No.
D: Dizziness or fainting spells?
P: No.
D: Any weight loss recently?
P: No.
D: Fevers or chills?
P: Nope.
D: Rashes?
P: No.
D: Changes in vision, hearing, smell, or taste?
P: No.
D: Any coughing, shortness of Breath or wheezing?
P: No.
D: Any chest pain or heart palpitations?
P: No.
D: Any changes in bowel movement?
P: Nope.
D: How about changes in urine?
P: No, no changes.
D: Okay, and is she otherwise healthy? Does she have any long standing medical conditions?
P: She's been healthy so far. No concerns at all.
D: Okay, and with her mother's pregnancy with her, were there any complications at that point?
P: No, it was like a normal pregnancy. No complications. She was born at 39 weeks. Like a vaginal delivery. Didn't have to stay in the hospital or anything like that.
D: Okay, and no issues as a neonate?
P: No. We were able to bring her home pretty quick.
D: Okay, that's good. And then she hasn't had any hospitalizations or surgery since then?
P: No. No surgeries or hospitalizations.
D: All right, Is she on any medications?
P: No, no medications.
D: Okay. Is she up to date with her immunization?
P: Yeah, we'll get all the immunization.
D: Okay, how about allergies? Does she have any?
P: No allergies.
D: Okay, Any family history of musculoskeletal issues?
P: No.
D: Lung or heart conditions?
P: Nope.
D: Autoimmune conditions?
P: No.
D: Cancers?
P: Nope.
D: Is she like, on par with her peers in terms of development and reaching milestones?
P: No. Like she's been meeting all her milestones, been on par with her siblings and other children. No concerns from the doctor whatsoever.
D: Okay, and who does she live with at home?
P: She lives with me, her dad. And she has two siblings, two older brothers.
D: Okay, and does anyone at home smoke?
P: No.
D: Any concerns for her safety at home?
P: No. Like, we're like. No, I don't think so.
D: No. Okay. And how are things at school for her?
P: School's been well. Like, it's been difficult with the pandemic, but she's doing well.
D: Okay, that's good. Has she come in contact with anyone sick recently?
P: No.
D: Have you done any travel recently?
P: Nope.
D: Okay. All right, those are all the questions I have for history taking. Let's move on to the physical exam part of this interview. I'm just going to get you to take a look at both her elbows and arms. Do you see any redness or swelling in the right elbow compared to the left?
P: No, I don't see any left. Yeah, no, I don't see any changes.
D: Okay, how about any muscle atrophy, deformities or skin changes, like bruises?
P: No, I don't see anything like that.
D: Okay, how about when you palpate her elbows? Is she in pain?
P: She doesn't really let me, but if I try to, I think that does cause her some pain.
D: Okay, how about when you palpate her, like, forearm muscles?
P: No, not as much.
D: Okay. How about her biceps and triceps?
P: No, not really.
D: No. Okay. All right. And those are all the questions that I kind of had for you. Did you have any questions of your own? For myself, no.
P: I just wanted to find out if she broke something or like. Yeah, I didn't know what was going on.
D: Okay. Yeah, it seems like someone of her age and just the kind of history that you're giving me, it sounds like she has something called a radial head subluxation, and that's usually caused in young children when they're, like, pulled or lifted by the hand or wrist while their arm is held straight, which can kind of pull the bone out of its socket a little bit. So in terms of, like, a management plan, you can try conservative things like ice packs, over the counter, painkillers. Otherwise, we can try to put the radius back into its normal position here, which will just take, like, a few minutes. And then after we reduce it back into its place, she should have normal function of her arm again. If she's still experiencing pain, we can continue keeping it on a splint, but otherwise, I don't think we need any imaging for this at this time. So did you have any questions or any concerns about that?
P: No, I think that's a good plan.
D: Okay, great. Thank you.
P: Thank you.
