D: What brings you here today?
P: So I'm here because my shoulder has been really painful for the past week, and any movement of that shoulder, of my right shoulder causes a lot of pain.
D: Okay, and how long have you been having this pain for?
P: For the past week.
D: Past week. Okay. And did you injure your shoulder at all recently? Any trauma to the area or anything like that?
P: So about, like, a couple months ago, I was. Do I work in construction? So I was moving around some heavy objects, and I guess, like, the repetitive motions caused some sort of rotator cuff injury, but I had that. Like, I got that treated, and. And everything was fine for a couple months, but this pain just started a week ago.
D: Okay, and where is this pain located exactly?
P: It's just, like, in my shoulder, like, at the joint between my upper arm and shoulder.
D: Okay. And is it an aching pain or is it a sharp, stabbing pain?
P: So at rest, it seems to be, like, achy and stiff, but. But when I move my shoulder or when I try to move it, it causes more of a sharp pain.
D: Sharp pain. Okay. And what kind of movements cause the sharp pain? Or is it just any movement?
P: Any movements?
D: Any movement? Okay. Are there any movements that are worse in particular?
P: I think, like. No, anything hurts.
D: Okay. Okay. And how much would you rate this pain out on a scale of 0 to 10, 10 being the worst pain you've felt in your life?
P: Give it about a seven.
D: Seven. Okay.
P: Yeah.
D: And are you having. Is this pain moving to any other joints or any other part of your body?
P: No.
D: Okay, so just in the area that you described?
P: Yes.
D: Okay. And do you notice any kind of just looking at your shoulder outside, from the outside, any swelling, redness, any masses or deformities?
P: No, I don't see anything like that.
D: Okay. All right. And is there anything that you've tried that has helped with your pain?
P: I've tried some ibuprofen, some ice. It seems to help temporarily.
D: Okay. And earlier, when you had the rotator catha injury, did you get physiotherapy?
P: I did, but not. But I didn't finish the full course. I just went for a week or so, and then I had to go back to work, so I stopped doing that.
D: I see. Yeah. So that's something. Definitely. It's very important, and we'll need to consider going forward as well. Other than that, are you having any symptoms of any fevers or chills?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Have you been sick recently at all or met with someone who was sick?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any weight loss or loss in appetite, anything like that?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Any numbness or tingling?
P: No.
D: Any weakness in your extremities?
P: No.
D: Any symptoms, anything else, like diarrhea, constipation, urinary changes? Anything else going on?
P: No.
D: No. Okay, so it's mainly just the shoulder pain?
P: Yes.
D: Okay. All right. And does rest help at all, like, when you're lying down, just not moving your shoulder, does that help with your pain?
P: Yeah, I would say so.
D: Okay. And is this stiffness there just throughout the day, or is it there in the morning and then gets better during the day?
P: It's pretty much there all day.
D: Okay. All right. Have you been diagnosed with any medical conditions in the past?
P: I have. I have diabetes, but that's about it.
D: Okay. And do you take any medications?
P: I'm on metformin.
D: Okay. And do you have any allergies to any medications?
P: No, no allergies to medications.
D: Have you been hospitalized or had any surgeries in the past?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. Any family history of any musculoskeletal or rheumatologic conditions?
P: No.
D: Okay. And currently, right now. So you said you work as a construction worker, right? Yes. And are you off of work right now, or have you been off of work due to your previous injury and pain, or are you still working?
P: I'm still working, but modified. So I am not lifting any heavy objects or anything like that. I'm just doing some, like, groundwork.
D: Okay, that's good. Yeah. And you might also need to, if you're doing any kind of overhead, like work where you're raising your arms above your shoulders, that might cause further problems as well. So we'll look into some of those modified duties as well.
P: Okay.
D: Yeah. And what is your living situation like right now? Who do you live with?
P: I live by myself right now.
D: Do you live in a house or apartment?
P: I live in an apartment.
D: And in terms of your daily life, do you smoke at all?
P: I don't smoke. I used to smoke before, but that was, like, 20 years ago.
D: Okay, that's good. And do you use any recreational drugs, like marijuana or any other drugs?
P: No. No.
D: How about smoking? Do you smoke cigarettes? Sorry, you said you quit. Do you drink alcohol?
P: I'll drink, like, a glass of wine here and there.
D: Okay. All right. Yeah. And those are some of the questions I had for you in terms of just a physical examination. When you press on the area that you describe, when you press around the area, does it hurt?
P: I have to press pretty hard for it to hurt.
D: Okay. But otherwise it's not tender?
P: No.
D: Okay. And again, no swelling, redness, or anything like that. It's mainly just on the inside.
P: Yeah.
D: Okay. And any kind of movement hurts, Right? There's no particular movement that, like, if you were. Instead of trying to raise that shoulder by itself, if you were to just move it with the other arm, does that hurt?
P: The other arm? The other arm doesn't hurt at all.
D: Or, like, if you were to use your left arm to. To passively move your right arm and shoulder, does that hurt? Or is it when you just try to move the right arm by itself?
P: It's. Oh, it still hurts. Any. Any moving of the shoulder hurts.
D: Okay. All right. So. Yeah. So based on what you've told me so far and your recent shoulder cuff injury, what can sometimes happen is with those injuries, you might get some inflammation. And what might happen is something called adhesive capsulitis or just commonly known as a frozen shoulder. And there's different stages, so that might happen. So the initial stage is like, freezing, and then there's stiffening in stage two. And then usually after six to 12 months, it starts getting better.
P: Okay.
D: And it might also affect your other shoulder as well. So what we'll end up doing today is see if we can get some imaging done so we can do an X ray of your shoulder. I'm sure you've had X rays before, so we'll kind of compare them to your shoulder X rays from before. If we need to, we can also get an ultrasound. If we don't, we can't really tell from the X rays. And then from there, we can get some blood work as well. Just your normal blood work, as well as inflammation markers. And then from there, we'll need to really discuss some management strategies. So you've already tried some physiotherapy, but we need to make sure that it's consistent because this is something that has a high recurrence rate. And we will definitely need to finish the full course of physiotherapy, whatever it may be, because if physiotherapy doesn't work, we may have to consider other options, like corticosteroid steroid injections right into your shoulder.
P: Okay.
D: Or some relief. But. Yeah. So first we'll just try some conservative methods, like physiotherapy, pain management, and then go from there. How does that sound?
P: That sounds pretty good. Thank you.
D: You're welcome. All right, so we'll call you for the X rays, and then we'll go from there.
P: Okay, Sounds good.
