D: What brings you here today?
P: Yeah, so I'm here with my mom because I am having this pain in my right hip and groin area. I was playing with my friends to maybe. Yeah, yesterday, and I fell down. I didn't fall down hard, but I had a small fall, and since then my hip has been hurting, and it's painful for me to bear any weight on my right leg.
D: Okay, and did you have this pain at all before your fall, or is this something that just started after the fall?
P: It just started after.
D: Okay, and when did you have the fall?
P: Yesterday.
D: Okay, and can you describe what you were doing and from how high did you fall and if, like, on what surface you fell on?
P: Sure. We were playing soccer on, like, a field, and I just fell on the grass like it was a flat surface.
D: Okay, and so did you say it was the right hip that's giving you pain?
P: Yes, that's right.
D: Okay. Did you fall on the right hip?
P: I did.
D: Okay, and after you fell, were you able to weight bear, like, get back up on your feet, or was it difficult?
P: It was difficult. I'm still limping.
D: Okay, you're still limping. Have you noticed any pain anywhere else, or is it just your hip?
P: Just my hip.
D: Okay, and where exactly is your pain on the hip?
P: It's, like, on the side of my hip as well as, like, in the groin area.
D: Okay, and what kind of pain are you experiencing? Is it a sharp pain or is it a dull, aching pain?
P: It's pretty sharp.
D: It's sharp. Okay, and do you experience any other symptoms, like any dizziness or fainting spells?
P: No.
D: Okay, and are you able to move your hip at all, like, are you able to flex it or extend it, rotate it?
P: I can move it, but it comes with a lot of pain.
D: Okay, and do you find that your hip is at all rotated outwards?
P: Yeah, it looks. Yeah, it looks like it is.
D: Okay. All right. Have you taken any medications for your pain?
P: I just took some ibuprofen.
D: Okay, and other than that, have you recently been sick at all?
P: No, I haven't.
D: Okay, and on a scale of 0 to 10, 10 being the worst pain you felt in your life, how much would you rate this?
P: I would say like an 8.
D: An 8. And does the pain travel anywhere to other parts of your body?
P: No, just in that area.
D: Okay. Any numbness or tingling?
P: No, no.
D: Okay. Any fevers or chills?
P: No.
D: Any skin changes that you've noticed over the hip?
P: No.
D: So no swelling, redness, or anything like that?
P: No, it doesn't seem to be red. Maybe some slight swelling? Yeah.
D: Any shortness of breath, chest pain?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any pain in any other joints?
P: No.
D: Do you feel any weakness in your upper legs or lower legs at all?
P: No, not that I can tell. No.
D: Okay. And do you have any past medical conditions that you've been diagnosed with?
P: No, I've been pretty healthy otherwise.
D: And do you take any medications on a daily basis?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any allergies that you know of?
P: No.
D: And are all your immunizations up to date?
P: Yep, they should be.
D: Okay. And have you ever been hospitalized or had any surgeries in the past?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. And yeah, I'll just ask you, as well as your mother, during the time she was pregnant with you, did you have any kind of complications during pregnancy at all?
P: No, no complications.
D: Okay. And when you were born, any complications after birth, any stay in the hospital for any reason?
P: No.
D: And was it a vaginal delivery or was it a C section?
P: It was a vaginal delivery.
D: Okay. And was there the use of any kind of instruments like forceps or vacuum for any reason?
P: No.
D: No. Okay, so it was like a fairly normal pregnancy. And were you at term or premature?
P: At term.
D: Okay. All right. And any complications, difficulties while you were growing up at all with your growth, like height or weight or any kind of developmental issues that you know?
P: No, I hit all my milestones and otherwise doing pretty well on par with my peers in terms of milestones.
D: Okay. And school's going well?
P: Yeah, school's going well.
D: Okay. And in terms of your family history, any musculoskeletal or rheumatologic conditions?
P: No, nothing like that in my family.
D: Okay. And currently, right now, who do you live with?
P: I live with both my parents as well as my seven year old sister.
D: And. Yeah. If I can just. Is it okay if I just talk to you alone for a little bit?
P: Sure. Yeah.
D: All right. Yeah. So anything that we talk about here today will stay confidential as long as there's no harm to yourself or others or risk of harm to yourself or others. So, yeah, I'm just going to ask you a few questions pertaining to your health.
P: Sure, that sounds good.
D: At home, do you find that you're in a safe environment even outside of your home, in your neighborhood, do you feel safe?
P: I do.
D: Okay. And how about at school? Do you feel safe? Have you experienced any kind of bullying or anything like that? No. Okay. Have you tried any alcohol, recreational drugs or cigarettes or do you know any friends that have tried?
P: No, I know older kids that have tried in the school, but we haven't okay.
D: And are you sexually active?
P: No.
D: All right. Yeah. So those are just a few questions I had. I'll call your mom back in. Okay. So, yeah, we're just gonna try and do a couple examinations. So are you able to stand up by yourself?
P: I can, but I need a lot of assistance. Like, I have to hold on to the desk or have a crutch or something like that.
D: Okay, no worries. And then while laying down, are you able to lift your right leg with your knees straight?
P: I don't know about straightening my knees. My leg seems to have permanently turned outward and looks shorter than my other leg.
D: Okay. And. Yeah, I forgot to ask you this earlier. I don't. I don't think we weighed you when you were coming in, but approximately how much would you say you weigh?
P: I weigh about 130 pounds.
D: Okay. And do you know how tall you are?
P: I'm about four, eight.
D: Okay. Okay. All right. So, yeah, those were just some of the questions I had. Today we'll do a full physical examination. Have you come in or. Sorry. And, like, we'll continue with the full examination today. And what. Currently, it seems like it can definitely be from the fall. You may have injured yourself. And we just want to make sure there's no fractures like a hip fracture. One thing that's also something that we have to investigate is something called slipped capital femoral epiphysis. So this is. This is a common hip issue in adolescents, especially from boys aged 10 to 16. And usually it's the left hip that's affected, but it can be the right. And as adolescents are in a phase where they're growing, there is. If they have some predisposition to slipping of the capital femoral epiphysis, which is right between your hips, you can get some slipping. It can be after a fall, or it can happen just as the child is growing. And it can also. It is also associated with the increasing weight that a child may have. So what we can do is just get first an X ray of both the hips and see what we can find on the X ray, and then we'll also do a full examination. And if it does turn out that there is a fracture or there's a slipped capital for mal, we will need to send out a referral to pediatric orthopedic surgery.
P: Okay.
D: Yeah. So, yeah, first we'll just get the imaging done and see what's going on in there, and then we'll get back to you shortly.
P: Okay, that sounds great. Thank you so much.
D: Welcome. Take care.
