D: What makes you in?
P: I've just been having this pain in my right elbow and it's just been getting worse over the last few days. I started having it around three days ago and it's just been getting worse. With any kind of gripping motion or. Yeah, so it's been getting worse.
D: Okay, so you said I started three days ago. Has it been persistent since or has it like been on and off?
P: It's been pretty persistent, but it's mainly when I'm doing some activities or lifting anything. And yeah, so I've just been trying to rest it mostly.
D: Okay. Okay, that's good. And you said it's worse with activity and better with rest. Have you tried anything else for it?
P: I've tried some Advil. It seemed to help a little bit, but it just comes back.
D: Okay, and if you were to describe the quality of this pain, would you say it's sharp, burning, throbbing, achy?
P: It's more like if I don't extend my wrist, it's kind of like achy, but then if I extend my wrist, I feel like a shar pain at. On the. Just on the outside of my elbow.
D: Okay. All right. All right. And then in terms of severity, 1 to 10, 10 being the worst pain you've ever felt, how bad is the pain?
P: Probably like six or seven.
D: Okay. All right. And have you ever experienced this type of pain before?
P: No, I've never experienced any kind of pain there at least.
D: Okay, how about in terms of timeline, is it getting worse?
P: Just over the past three days, I feel like it's. I've tried not to use it that much. Like when I was at work, I have to use like tools a lot and I noticed that when I was using a screwdriver, like it hurt a lot. So it hasn't been getting worse. But if I try to do anything at work, it definitely hurts a lot more.
D: Okay. All right. And then have you noticed any numbness or tingling?
P: No, no, nothing like that?
D: No. Okay, how about pain elsewhere on your body? Sorry, what was that pain elsewhere on your body?
P: Oh, no, no pain elsewhere.
D: Okay. And have you noticed any muscle weakness?
P: No.
D: No. Any headaches? No dizziness? No weight loss? No fevers or chills? No rashes? No changes in your vision, hearing, smell or taste? No coughing, shortness of breath or wheezing? No chest pain or heart palpitations? No changes in your bowel movements? No nausea or vomiting? No changes in your voiding?
P: No.
D: Okay. And are you otherwise healthy? Do you have any long standing medical conditions?
P: Yeah, no, I've been Healthy. No other issues in my life.
D: Okay, that's good. How about medications? Are you on any?
P: No, no medications. I've just been taking some Advil for this pain.
D: Okay, I see. And how about immunizations? Are you up to date?
P: Yep.
D: Do you have any allergies?
P: No.
D: Family history of any musculoskeletal issues?
P: No, just I guess my dad, he's. He's getting some knee pain and hip pain now. Starting now, but like, that's about it.
D: How old is he?
P: My dad is 60.
D: Okay, and any lung or heart conditions?
P: No.
D: Autoimmune conditions?
P: Not that I know of.
D: Okay, and how about cancers?
P: I think my aunt on my mother's side, she had uterine cancer.
D: Okay, I see. All right. Any hour or. Sorry. Yeah, answer that. Do you, do you smoke?
P: No.
D: No. Do you consume any marijuana?
P: No.
D: Do you drink alcohol?
P: Just like maybe some wine on wine. Beer every couple days.
D: Okay. And where do you live right now and who do you live with?
P: I live with my wife and four year old daughter.
D: Okay. Any concerns for STIs?
P: No.
D: Any sick contacts recently?
P: No.
D: Have you traveled anywhere recently?
P: No.
D: Okay, well, let's move on to the physical exam part of this interview then. So I'm going to get you to look at both your arms and hands and you let me know if you see any redness or swelling in your right arm compared to your left.
P: Okay. So like with movement?
D: No. Just on inspection, do you see any redness or swelling?
P: No, I don't really see anything that's too different. No?
D: No. Okay. Do you see any deformities, atrophy, or skin changes in your right compared to your left arm or hand?
P: No, they look pretty similar to me.
D: Okay. All right, and then I'm going to get you to press down on certain areas of your right arm so you can start with the back of your elbow. Does that hurt.
P: Just like right on the elbow? It doesn't hurt, but when I go on the outside part, it does hurt on the back.
D: Okay, so like the lateral aspect of your elbow.
P: Yeah, it's like sore if I press down.
D: Okay. How about the medial aspect of your elbow?
P: So yeah, on the inside, not so much. Maybe a little bit. Not that much.
D: Okay. How about when you press down on your biceps or triceps?
P: Nothing.
D: Nothing. How about when you press down on your forearm, extensor muscle group?
P: Just. Yeah, so just on the outside of my forearm, close to where the elbow pain is, if I go down a little bit and press down, it does definitely feel sore.
D: Okay. And then how about with your forearm flexor flexors?
P: So on the inside, not so much?
D: No, no. Okay. And now I'm gonna get you to walk through some movements with me. Can you get a piece of paper and actually, can you get a pencil and grip it as tight as you can? Do you find that you feel weak when you do that?
P: Not weak, but it does definitely. Like, when I picked up the pencil and moved my wrist up, it did cause some pain.
D: Okay. All right. So would you mind extending or, like, straightening out your elbow all the way and then also straightening out your wrists? Does that hurt.
P: Straightening out?
D: No, it doesn't hurt even with, like, the wrist straightened out?
P: Yeah, if I completely straighten out my wrist, then, like, I just feel a bit of a soreness, but not as much pain as when I am lifting something with my wrist or just raising my wrist upwards.
D: Okay. Okay. How about when you flex your wrist all the way.
P: That hurts a little bit. Not nearly as much as when I extend it.
D: Okay. Okay. Those were all the questions that I had for you today. Did you have any questions of your own? For myself, yeah.
P: I was just wondering what this might be.
D: Yeah. So it sounds like you have something called tennis elbow or lateral epicondylitis, and it's usually related to some overuse injury. So whether at work or if you play a lot of tennis or some sort of sport that overuses a certain muscle group, particularly like the forearm extensors. And so basically for this, we suggest a few things. We will start with, like, some conservative management, like activity modifications. So at work, if you're doing repetitive movements, maybe not do them so much and take frequent breaks, you can try some, like, ibuprofen. We'll refer you to some physiotherapy to help build those muscles around that area. And if those still don't work, we can try some other things, like operative management, but we'll come back to that in about six to 12 months once we try all of the other stuff. Does that sound okay?
P: Yeah, that sounds good. Thank you.
D: Yeah, no worries.
