D: What brings you in?
P: Hi. Yeah, so I've had this back pain that's been going on now for the last two weeks. It's just kind of right in the lower back and it just hasn't gone away.
D: Okay, Last two weeks you said? Is it getting worse?
P: I. No, it's not really getting any worse. It's just been limiting my abilities at work.
D: Right. Okay. And what do you do for work?
P: So I work at a butcher shop.
D: Okay.
P: Yeah, we're like always like carrying heavy things and. Yeah, it's a lot, a lot of like lifting and standing.
D: Okay. Did anything trigger this back pain two weeks ago? Did you have some sort of injury or trauma to the area?
P: No, I can't think of anything specific that happened, but there was one night where after work, I was sitting down after dinner and I got pretty stiff that night. It was pretty sore and kind of ever since then it's been. Been sore.
D: Okay. Okay. And is this a persistent kind of back pain or does it come and go?
P: It. I can kind of always feel it, but it certainly gets worse if I. And moving. So if I'm just kind of sitting at rest, I don't really. Yeah, I don't really feel it that much.
D: Okay. Okay. And if you were to describe the quality of this pain, would you say it's sharp, throbbing, achy, crampy?
P: I would say I get kind of a. It's a sharp pain.
D: Sharp pain. Okay. Does anything make it better or worse?
P: Better would just be resting, kind of just laying down or. Yeah, just trying to rest. But making it worse. Yeah. If I'm like really any movement, if I'm like bending forward or kind of like leaning to the sides, I start to get some pain in the lower back.
D: Okay. Okay. And then 1 to 10, 10 being the worst pain you've ever felt, how bad or how severe would you rate it?
P: I would say a seven.
D: A seven. Okay. And have you ever had pain like this in the past?
P: Yeah, I've hurt my lower back before, like many years ago, but it's been okay since then.
D: Okay. Did you get any sort of treatment or management for that pain back in the day?
P: At that time it was just rest and like did some stretching and I. I took some anti inflammatories and it went away after a couple of months.
D: Okay. Okay. And are you having any sort of like numbness or tingling anywhere on your body?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Alright. How about any muscle weakness?
P: No muscle weakness?
D: No. Okay. Are you still able to walk and do things that you normally Would do in a day.
P: Yeah, I'm able to walk still.
D: Okay. Any dizziness or fainting spells?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Any pain elsewhere on your body?
P: No, just the lower back? Yeah.
D: Okay. Headaches?
P: No.
D: Okay. Weight loss?
P: No, I haven't had any weight loss.
D: Fevers or chills?
P: Nope, no fevers or chills.
D: Rashes?
P: No rashes.
D: Changes in your vision, hearing, taste or smell?
P: No changes like that.
D: Okay. Any coughing, shortness of breath or wheeziness?
P: Nope, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Chest pain or heart palpitations?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Issues are changes in your bowel movements.
P: No changes to bowel movements? No. Diarrhea? No incontinence or anything like that.
D: Okay, good. And then nausea or vomiting?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. How about changes to your appetite?
P: Nope, I've been eating. I've been eating well.
D: Changes in your voiding?
P: Nope. I haven't had any changes to urination.
D: Okay. And then are you otherwise healthy or do you have any long standing medical conditions?
P: I've had a few sports injuries when I was younger, like to my. To my knee, but that's it. I've been healthy otherwise.
D: Okay. And those injuries, are they all healed?
P: Sometimes I'll get like a little achiness in my knee from. From doing like, too much activity, but I know when those. When that happens.
D: Okay. Are you on any medications?
P: No, I don't take any medications.
D: Okay. Are you up to date with all your immunizations?
P: I am, yep.
D: Okay. Do you have any allergies?
P: No allergies.
D: Okay. Any family history of muscular or skeletal issues?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay, how about heart or lung diseases?
P: No, no heart or lung diseases.
D: Okay, how about autoimmune conditions?
P: Nope, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Cancers?
P: No cancers.
D: Okay. And do you smoke?
P: No, I don't smoke.
D: Okay. And do you consume marijuana?
P: Sometimes. I'll have like edible little candy. Sometimes at nighttime they help me relax and sleep. But don't use that very often.
D: Okay. How often do you use them?
P: I would say maybe like once a week.
D: Once a week. Okay. All right. And then what else did I want to ask you? Do you take any recreational drugs?
P: No, and I haven't used any before.
D: Okay. And how about alcohol? Do you consume alcohol?
P: Yeah, I'll have a couple of beers on the weekend, so maybe like two or three.
D: Okay. And who and where do you live? Right. Who with and where do you live right now?
P: Yeah, I live with my wife and our. And our son who's in high school. We live in. In a house.
D: Okay. Okay. All right. And any concerns for STIs at all?
P: Oh, no. I've been with my wife now for a long time, and we've been monogamous. So no concerns for a sexually transmitted infection right now.
D: Okay, how about sick contacts? Have you been in contact with anyone sick recently?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: Okay. Any travel recently?
P: Nope. I haven't traveled anywhere.
D: Okay. And. Well, let's move on to the physical exam part of this interview. So I'm going to get you to stand up from a sitting position. Does that hurt your back?
P: Yeah, it does. I do feel a little bit of a twinge there.
D: Okay. And whereabouts specifically?
P: Kind of just. Yeah, on the lower. Lower right side. Like, more on the. More on the right side.
D: Okay. Now, if you have a mirror with you or if you have someone there with you, can speak to this. Does your right side appear more red, swollen or hot compared to your left side of the lower back?
P: No. Nothing like that?
D: No. Okay. And does it seem like it's more atrophied, or do you see any deformities or skin changes in that area?
P: Nope. No deformities or skin changes.
D: Okay. All right, now I'm gonna get you to bend down all the way and touch your toes, if you can.
P: Yeah, I can get partway down.
D: You can get partway down. Does it hurt?
P: A little bit. I can feel it pulling and stretching? Yeah.
D: Okay. All right, and then I'm gonna get you to, like, laterally flex to your right side. So kind of like you're doing an exercise and you're just like, bending towards that side.
P: Yeah, that hurts.
D: That hurts. Okay, how about the other side? The left side?
P: Yeah, that hurts, too.
D: Okay. And now I want to get you to bring your knees up towards the ceiling. Does that hurt one at a time, like your right. Right knee and your left knee?
P: Not really.
D: No. Okay, how about when you flex your knees backwards and kind of point your knees towards the ground?
P: No, no pain there.
D: Okay, so no pain on knee extension or flexion. How about when you point your toes to the ceiling?
P: No pain there.
D: Okay, so no pain on plantar flexion. How about when you point your toes to the ground?
P: No pain there.
D: Okay, so no pain on dorsiflexion. And then. Sorry, I forgot to ask you earlier. Do you have any sort of numbness in the groin area?
P: No. No numbness in the groin area.
D: Okay, so no numbness in the groin area. No weakness, no changes in your bowel or bladder habits, including no incontinence. So no red flags. Okay.
P: Yeah, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Okay, good. And. Okay. So those were all the questions that I had for you. Did you have any questions? For myself?
P: No. I was just kind of wondering, do I need any X rays or, like, what's going on?
D: Yeah. So what it sounds like right now is that you have something called mechanical back pain. It's pretty common, and it can be anything from your spinal joints to the discs to the vertebrae or soft tissue or muscle. And a lot of these can be caused by hard activity at work, like carrying heavy things and then carrying them in, like an improper position or something like that. And we diagnose that on history and physical exam. But if after we try some management and treatment plans, it doesn't go away and it persists for more than eight weeks, we do recommend imaging, including an mri. So in terms of management for right now, modified activity at work, some short term bed rest, very short term, though. And bedrest is only really recommended if you have severe back pain and muscle spasms. And you definitely shouldn't be doing that for more than, like, 24 to 48 hours. And physical activity can help. So referral to physical therapy or physiotherapy can help in rehab. And they'll give you some exercises that you can try at home to kind of strengthen those muscles. And then ice and heating packs temporarily can help. Medications like nsaids can help as well with the inflammation. So we'll try these things out and then we'll continue to follow up. Yeah. Did you have any questions or does that sound like an okay plan?
P: That sounds like a good plan.
D: Okay, sounds good. Thank you.
