D: How may I help you?
P: I'm George, the father. My daughter's five years old, and I noticed just a few days ago that she was walking a little bit funny, kind of having a limp when she came back from school. And since then she's been saying that it just hurts too much to put any weight on that leg, on the right leg. And she. Since then I've been, like, carrying around. It's been very painful for her, so I just wanted to come in and check what might be going on.
D: Okay. And so. And this. When did this exactly start?
P: So just two days ago.
D: Okay. And did she have any trauma to her right hip or to her right leg, like a fall or.
P: No, not that. Sorry. No, not that I know of, at least. And she hasn't told me anything. She does do some activities, some sports, but I haven't seen her fall anywhere.
D: Okay. All right. And has she. Has she not. Not been able to walk then?
P: Yeah. So I've been carrying her around for at least. Like, she's missed school, too, but been carrying around for the last one and a half to two days. As soon as I asked her to walk, she starts kind of hopping and saying that there's a lot of pain near the top of her leg and by her hips whenever she puts her foot, like, a foot down. So, yeah, she's in pain, crying, so I kind of have to carry her.
D: Okay. And how has her behavior been recently, like her mood and things like that?
P: She's definitely been more. Just a bit anxious about the pain, very scared about putting her foot down, and just overall, I think also more irritable, crying more because of the pain. So. But I guess I understand if there's something going on, it must be very painful.
D: Okay.
P: And.
D: All right. Has she had any fevers or chills?
P: I did notice a couple of days ago she felt a bit warm, but we didn't really measure her temperature. Over the last few weeks, though, she has had a kind of a runny nose and a cough, and I think she might have had a fever last week as well. So she has been sick recently.
D: Okay, so it sounds like she might have had a cold last week and the runny nose and cough go away.
P: Yeah, the runny nose and cough are gone. The fever was gone, too, but she did feel a little bit warm yesterday, so I'm not sure about that.
D: Okay, so she's a bit warm now still. Okay. Has she had any. Any headaches?
P: No, no headaches.
D: Any sensory changes, like things to her vision or hearing or taste or Smell?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any sore throat or cough?
P: No.
D: All right. Any shortness of breath?
P: Nope.
D: Any chest pain?
P: No.
D: Has she had a loss of appetite?
P: No.
D: Okay. And has she had any unexpected weight loss?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Any night sweats?
P: No.
D: Any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Any abdominal pain?
P: No. Abdominal pain.
D: Okay. Any diarrhea or constipation or blood in the stool?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: All right. And any problems with urination, like pain or frequency?
P: No, not that she's mentioned. No.
D: Okay. And any skin rashes or changes?
P: No.
D: Okay. And any muscle aches or body pains or any other pains anywhere else?
P: No, it's mainly just her upper right leg and hip.
D: Okay. Has she had any numbness or tingling?
P: No, not that she's pension? No.
D: Okay. And how about muscle weakness?
P: No.
D: Okay. And any confusion or memory loss?
P: No.
D: Okay. And in the past, has she been diagnosed with any medical conditions?
P: She did have this condition with her hips, dysplasia, like developmental dysplasia of the hips. When she was born, she was getting, like, this clicking noise in her hips, and so she was in this splint for probably almost two months at the start, like after she was born.
D: Okay, and did her hips. Did. Like, was she able to walk afterwards?
P: Yeah.
D: Okay. Yeah.
P: And we were seeing a specialist, an orthopedic surgeon, and they were managing her. And after one year, they stopped following her. She was. Well, like, she was walking, no issues.
D: Okay, so she was walking around one year. Have you had any other concerns about her, either social or physical development?
P: No, she's been really great. She's good with people. She has great social skills. She has grown well, met all her milestones. She's doing really well at school and gets along well with her peers as well.
D: Okay, excellent. And were there any concerns throughout pregnancy, such as gestational diabetes or hypertension or any exposures to infections?
P: No. Her mom's pregnancy was perfectly normal.
D: She was born.
P: She was delivered vaginally at 39 weeks. She was breech at that time, which the doctor said might have to do with her clicking hips, but. Yeah. But since then or during pregnancy, no other complications.
D: Okay, that's great. And in regards to. I mentioned her hip, any other past medical history?
P: No, other than that she's been healthy.
D: Okay. And does she take any medications regularly, over the counter or prescribed?
P: No, no, no medications.
D: Okay. Any allergies to medications?
P: No, not that I know of.
D: I'm sorry. Has she taken anything for the pain?
P: No, I haven't really given her anything. I didn't know what to Give.
D: All right, we'll talk more. Has she had prior surgeries or hospitalizations?
P: No.
D: Tell me about who she's living with, whereabouts she's living with.
P: Yeah, so she's currently living at home with me, my wife, and she has an older brother. We live in a small house just near the city.
D: Okay, and what do you guys do?
P: Yeah, so I'm a lawyer, and my wife is a music teacher.
D: Okay, Is there anybody who smokes in the home?
P: No, none of us smoke.
D: Okay. Okay. And any family history of heart or lung conditions?
P: No, no family history. Our family's pretty healthy.
D: Okay, I would have family history of any autoimmune conditions such as. Or hypothyroidism?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay, then. Any musculoskeletal or neurological conditions in the family?
P: No.
D: Okay, so next on just the exam, when you're looking at the right hip, are you seeing any swelling, redness?
P: No, I. Not that I see anything, no.
D: Okay, and is there any, like, muscle atrophy around the hip?
P: No, not that I see at all.
D: Okay, and then is there any misalignment or deformity of the joint that you can see?
P: No, I can't. Yeah, I don't see anything in the hips or legs that really points out to me.
D: Okay, and is there any pain to palpation over the hip or. Or knee.
P: If I. If I press on it? I don't think she's in that much pain. It's mainly just when she's trying to walk or put weight on it.
D: Okay, and is she able to move the hip in a full range of motion of, like, flexion, extension, abduction, adduction?
P: So she does. She is able to move it if she really tries, but it's mainly just putting her weight on it. Anytime she puts her weight on it is when it really hurts.
D: Okay, so more about the weight on it. And is she able to move her knee with a full range of motion?
P: Yeah.
D: Okay. And any muscle weakness when testing around the joint?
P: Nope.
D: Okay, so I think that was everything that I wanted to ask on history and check. Was there anything I maybe forgot about, you thought would be more important today?
P: No, I think that's all just. Just was wondering what might be going on.
D: Yeah, certainly. So a couple of things that it could be. One is that it can be common in this age group is something called transient synovitis, which can happen in the hip where there's some inflammation and it causes some pain following a viral infection. And it sounds like she had a viral infection last week with a cough, fever and runny nose. And her she was feeling a bit warm and maybe feverish today as well, which could be a sign with a lower kind of a slightly elevated temperature, pointing towards transient synovitis, which is a condition that will be self limiting and can use anti inflammatories to help with the pain, such as ibuprofen. But also something that would be important to rule out would be as septic arthritis because it could lead to damage of the joint, but this will be lower on the differential. And then finally, something to consider is leg calf Perthes disease, but this would be more of a progressive onset. But if she's not getting any better and or if she becomes more sick, like develops a really high fever or a red hot swollen joint, then we'd be thinking more along the lines of septic arthritis and we want to reassess.
P: Okay, sounds good. Thank you so much.
