D: How may I help you?
P: I'm here because I've been having some pain in my left knee for the past two months, and it's not getting better. It feels stiff, and I just haven't been able to, you know, use it as well, as well as I was using it before. And it's just limited some of my daily activities.
D: Okay, and where. So it's. The pain is in your left knee. Where are you feeling this pain specifically? Is it at the front of the knee, the sides or the back? Could you point to.
P: Feels like it's mostly on the front.
D: Okay.
P: Like, deep within that kneecap.
D: Okay. And you said the pain started two months ago?
P: Yes. Well, it's always been a little, like, tender, but now it's more painful.
D: Okay. And so has it been getting worse?
P: I would say so slowly getting worse.
D: Okay, and what. And when you get pain in the left knee, how long does it typically last for?
P: It usually hurts while I'm doing, like, while I'm moving it or just after. But if I. If I rest, the pain eventually goes away. But when I first wake up in the morning, that joint feels stiff. And then when I start using it more, it's less stiff, but it becomes painful.
D: Okay, so you have some stiffness in the morning?
P: I do.
D: Okay, and how long does that last? For like, 30 minutes, 60 minutes or longer.
P: The stiffness or pain?
D: Yeah, the stiffness.
P: The stiffness goes away in, like, yeah, 15 to 30 minutes.
D: Okay, and how would you describe the pain in terms of its character?
P: It feels. It feels, I guess, most of the time it's like a dull, gnawing kind of pain, but it can be sharp.
D: Okay. And is there anything that makes the pain worse?
P: Just with a lot of activity, it gets worse.
D: And do you feel it radiate anywhere else?
P: No.
D: Okay, and how would you describe the severity of your pain on a scale of 10 being the worst pain you've ever felt and one being kind of very minimal pain?
P: I would give it maybe a seven.
D: Okay. And have you had any injuries to your knee before?
P: No, not that I can think of.
D: Okay. And have you been having any weight loss recently?
P: No. Weight gain?
D: Weight gain. Okay. How much weight have you gained over the last several months?
P: Over the past six months, I'd say I've gained about 20 pounds.
D: Okay. Have you had changes in your diet and. Or exercise?
P: I guess I've been eating a little bit more, but no changes in exercise.
D: Okay. Have you been having any fevers or chills?
P: No.
D: Okay. How about any night sweats?
P: No night sweats?
D: Okay. And have you had any changes to your vision or hearing?
P: No.
D: Okay, have you had any changes to your sense of smell or sense of taste?
P: Nope.
D: Okay, have you had a runny nose or a sore throat?
P: No.
D: Have you had a cough or any shortness of breath?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay, how about any wheezing?
P: No wheezing.
D: All right, any chest pain or heart palpitations?
P: No.
D: All right, have you had any lightheadedness or dizziness?
P: No.
D: All right, so any confusion or memory loss?
P: No.
D: All right, so have you had any changes in appetite? Like a loss of appetite?
P: No, I. If anything, had to gain an appetite.
D: All right, have you had any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: How about any abdominal pain?
P: No.
D: All right, and how about any urinary problems?
P: No. Urinary problems.
D: And any changes to your bowel habits like diarrhea or blood in the stool?
P: No.
D: All right, and have you had any rashes or skin changes or changes to your hair or nails?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. And any other joint pains or have you or do you have any joint swelling?
P: I have some joint swelling. It's not very visible, but it appears slightly more swollen than my left. Sorry, than my right knee.
D: Okay, so just a little bit of swelling in your left knee but no other joints?
P: No.
D: Okay. And have you been diagnosed with any medical conditions before?
P: I have diabetes, high blood pressure and high cholesterol and I'm overweight.
D: Okay. Do you take any medications for any of those conditions?
P: I'm on insulin for diabetes. I'm on Ramapril for high blood pressure and I'm also on a statin for the cholesterol.
D: Okay, and do you have any allergies to medications?
P: No.
D: All right, and have you had any surgeries in the past?
P: No.
D: All right, and are your immunizations up to date?
P: I think so.
D: All right, and can you tell me a little bit about your living situation currently, like who you're living with and whereabouts?
P: I live with my husband in a house downtown.
D: Okay. And are you working currently?
P: No, I retired early.
D: Okay, and do you drink alcohol?
P: I'll have a glass of wine every night.
D: Okay, so about seven drinks per week?
P: Yes.
D: Okay. And do you smoke cigarettes?
P: No, I don't.
D: Alright, how about the use of any recreational drugs, like cannabis or anything else?
P: No.
D: All right, and is there any, like, musculoskeletal or like autoimmune conditions that run in the family?
P: No musculoskeletal issues. I know. Diabetes runs in the family.
D: Okay. All right, so that was everything I wanted to ask on. So next, I just wanted to do a physical exam. And just looking at the left knee, are you seeing any swelling or redness on the knee?
P: It appears slightly more swollen than my right knee.
D: Okay. Are you seeing any redness?
P: No redness.
D: Okay. And are there any temperature changes, like does the knee feel hot or warm?
P: No.
D: Okay. And if you press along the joint line, do you feel any pain?
P: Yeah, it feels a little tender.
D: Okay, and how about pain over any of the muscles like the thigh muscles or the hamstrings or the calf muscles?
P: No, those are fine.
D: Okay, and then how about any pain over the patella or kneecap.
P: That. That's a little bit more painful.
D: Okay. And are you able to bend your knee, like flex it and straighten it?
P: I can do that. It's just painful when I do that.
D: Okay. And then how about walking? Are you. Do you have an antalgic gait or a limp?
P: No. No. Well, I guess I'm putting more weight on my right knee, so it might appear to some people that I do have a slight limb.
D: Okay. And any issues with moving your hip or your ankle?
P: No.
D: Okay, so I think that was everything I wanted to ask and check today. Did you have any questions?
P: Yeah. So how do you. How can I treat my knee?
D: Yeah, certainly. So it sounds like this could be most likely osteoarthritis of the left knee, which is something that would be best treated with trying to stay as active as you can, but also pacing your activities as well so that you're not doing so much that the next day you're in significant amount of pain. But it's important to remember that activity will help with keeping your knee mobile, but also actually help with reducing pain as well. And then also you could use Tylenol as a medication for it. Wouldn't recommend ibuprofen or nsaids on a long term basis, although you could take those if you're having like an acute flare up of your pain. And then also like topical agents such as like Voltaren or something like that you could put on your knee. And if it's really bad and it keeps continuing on, we can consider something like a steroid injection as well.
P: Okay. Yeah, that sounds good. Thank you.
D: All right, thank you.
