D: What brings you in here today?
P: I've had this pain in my knee.
D: It started.
P: Within the last few hours and my knee's swollen. It's painful. I can barely move it.
D: Okay. Did you injure yourself at all before the last few hours or anything? Any trauma to, Is it the right knee or the left knee?
P: The Celeste knee. And no trauma or anything like that? I've never hurt this knee before in my life.
D: Okay, and has this ever happened to you before?
P: No, nothing in my joints. I've had other infections before, like in my skin, like cellulitis, but I've never had a knee, knee problem like this before.
D: Okay, I see. And have you ever had cellulitis in that area?
P: I, I, I had it over kind of my, like, over my foot before.
D: Okay. Okay. And where would you describe the pain? Is, is it like on the kneecap? Is it above the kneecap? Below? Where would you describe it?
P: It's like my whole knee. It's like. I don't know, it looks like it's gonna explode.
D: Okay, Is it like. So it's swollen. Is it red and warm?
P: It is, yeah. It's really red.
D: Okay.
P: And warm as well.
D: Okay, and how would you describe the pain? Is it like a sharp stabbing pain or is it an aching pain?
P: It's a stabbing pain.
D: Okay, and are you mainly having the pain with movement of your knee or when you're pressing on it?
P: I would say both. I can't, I can't really move it. It'll give me pain. And even pressing on it, it's quite painful.
D: Okay, and on a scale of 1 to 10. Sorry, 0 to 10, with 10 being the worst pain you felt in your life, how much would you rate this pain?
P: It's a nine.
D: A nine. Okay, so it just started a few hours ago. Is there anything that makes the pain better or worse?
P: I mean, just try to stay as still as possible is all I've been doing so far because any type of movement is really bad.
D: Okay. And are you able to weight bear? Are you able to stand and walk by yourself?
P: I was pretty much like hopping on one leg to get in here, and as soon as I could, got in the wheelchair just because it hurt so bad.
D: Okay. And do you have any pain or symptoms in any other joints or muscles of your body?
P: No, just. It's just my left knee.
D: Just your left knee. Okay. Do you have any other symptoms like fevers, chills, nausea, or vomiting?
P: I have felt feverish, yeah, but, yeah, I felt feverish, but I haven't had any chills though.
D: Okay. When were you feeling feverish?
P: Just like today. It's kind of. Yeah, it started within the last day.
D: Okay. And did you get a chance to measure your temperature at all? If not, we can do that here.
P: No, I didn't get to. I didn't check it.
D: Okay. And have you been sick at all recently, either with cold, like, symptoms or any GI symptoms like diarrhea, constipation, anything like that?
P: No, I haven't had any. Anything like that.
D: Okay, and have you recently had any sexually transmitted diseases or exposure to ticks or Lyme disease?
P: I don't think so. I've been just, well, in the city. I haven't traveled anywhere, and I haven't been sexually active for quite a while now.
D: Okay. Yeah. Okay. Have you recently at all had any procedures done on your knee, like, any surgeries or any joint, like injections or aspirations?
P: No, nothing done to my knee.
D: Okay. Okay. So, yeah, we'll take a temperature of your fever. And so are you able to flex or extend your knee at all, or is it very painful?
P: It's really painful. The movement's really limited.
D: Okay. Has the pain been constant since it started a few hours ago?
P: Yeah, it's gotten, like. It's gotten slightly worse.
D: Okay, I see. Okay. Any skin changes or rashes anywhere on your body?
P: No, it's just the red knee.
D: Okay. Any changes in your weight or appetite?
P: No, I haven't had any changes there.
D: Okay. And otherwise, are you having any symptoms of dizziness, fainting?
P: No, I haven't had any of those symptoms.
D: Okay. Any weakness in your extremities?
P: No, no weakness.
D: Okay. Do you have any past medical conditions, conditions that you've been diagnosed with, Any diabetes, high blood pressure?
P: I've been told my blood sugar has been like. It hasn't been controlled, so, yeah, I think I have diabetes, but that's it.
D: Okay. Do you take anything for your medications for your diabetes?
P: Yeah, I take metformin and. And, yeah, that's all I've been taking. But, I mean, it's really hard for me to get my medication sometimes, and so I don't always take it.
D: Okay, I see. Okay. And do you have any allergies to any medications?
P: Not that I. Not that I can think of. And so something that I forgot to mention is, like, I've had hepatitis in the past as well, and.
D: Yeah, and do you know which hepatitis you've had?
P: I've had. It was hepatitis C and was treated. I was treated for it.
D: Okay. Okay. And how long ago was that?
P: That was about two Years ago.
D: Okay, and did they tell you like how it may have been transmitted at all? Was it sexually? Was it through use of IV drug use? And did they tell you what the likely cause was?
P: Yeah, the, the likely cause was. I was told it was through IV drug use. I've been using now for, for about 10 years.
D: Okay, and have you. And what do you usually use?
P: Well, like any, anything that I, that I can usually. But I guess like various types of opioids are kind of the main thing that I'll use.
D: Okay, and have you injected drugs recently at all?
P: Yeah, about two days ago was the last time.
D: Okay. Okay. And do you use any other drugs, any recreational drugs like marijuana or any. Do you inject any other drugs at all?
P: Yeah, I'll smoke, smoke marijuana as well. And like sometimes like I'll take pills too, like Dilaudid is something that I'll get my hands on, but it can be expensive, so just, just whatever's available.
D: Okay, I see. Have you had. When was the last time you had cellulitis?
P: The last time was about six months ago.
D: Okay, and were you admitted at all or were you treated as an outpatient?
P: I was treated as an outpatient for that and it did clear up. It wasn't the first time that I've had cellulitis and yeah, so it was treated.
D: Okay. Have you had any hospitalizations or surgeries in the past?
P: No, I haven't.
D: Okay. Any family history of any conditions, mosquitoskeletal or rheumatologic conditions? Any rheumatoid arthritis, anything like that?
P: I don't think so.
D: Okay. And currently, right now, what is your living situation like?
P: So I just live with two of my. Actually, sorry, no, I live with my, with my parents and yeah, so it's just both my parents.
D: Okay. And do you currently work?
P: I was working until like, yeah, about 15 years ago now. I like, I got injured on the. At work and I've had like chronic back pain and I don't know, I think that's kind of how this partly all started. So I've been at home, I receiving. I'm on disability.
D: Okay. And do you smoke cigarettes?
P: I do, yeah, I smoke about half a pack, two pack a day.
D: Okay, and how long have you been smoking for?
P: So this has been about 20 years.
D: 20 years. Okay. And do you drink alcohol?
P: Sometimes? Yeah, I'll have just a few beers. Maybe a few beers a week.
D: Okay. And yeah, we were just talking about some of the like the movements. But you're saying you have pain with any kind of Movement at all, Right?
P: Yeah, it's really painful. I just. I try not to move it at all.
D: And it's very red and swollen and warm as well.
P: Yeah. All those.
D: Any symptoms at all in your hips or ankle?
P: No, those feel fine. I can move my hip and ankle.
D: Okay.
P: And no pain.
D: Okay. All right, so those are all the questions I had for you. We'll do, like, a full physical examination, take a look at your knee, and most likely what this sounds like is something called septic arthritis. It's when there's, like, an infection that can go into your joints. And it is a pretty serious issue that we need to assess and treat as soon as possible. So the first thing that we will need to do, we'll need to do some blood work just to get some inflammation markers and just your CBC and see if you have an infection. However, we'll also need to do a joint aspiration of your. Of your knee. And we'll be taking some fluid within your joint called the synovial fluid, and assess for. We'll send in for culture and look for, like, these crystals and count. And then based on that, we'll understand the infection you have and what kind of infection you have. We will start you on antibiotics right away today, and so you will be here for a while until we get all those results back. And you may also require an admission today as well.
P: Okay. Thank you. Yeah, that sounds good.
D: All right.
P: Yeah.
D: So, yeah, we'll get all that done for you shortly, and we'll go from there.
P: All right, thank you.
D: And we might also need an X ray, so just sit tight. We'll come call you.
P: Okay. Thank you.
D: All right. You're welcome.
