D: Brings you in.
P: I've been having this numbness and tingling, I guess, kind of burning sensation that. Well, it's been happening more often in my left hand.
D: On your left hand. Okay. And. Sorry, when did you say this started?
P: It's been going on for probably four or five months.
D: Okay.
P: Yeah. First it would only bug me for a couple of minutes at a time, and I could kind of shake my hand out, like, flick, like, flick my wrist, and it would go away after a few minutes. But now I'm starting to get symptoms at night sometimes as well.
D: Okay, so it's gotten worse than you said over the past few weeks?
P: Yeah, it has.
D: Okay. And is it always there? Is it persistent or does it come and go?
P: It comes and goes.
D: Okay. And what makes it better or worse?
P: Better? I've tried some Advil and Tylenol, and it's kind of hasn't done much for the pain, really. I think only the thing that kind of helps it is just not using it as much. Yeah.
D: Yeah. All right. Have you tried any, like, cold compresses, topical creams, anything like that?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. And if you were to describe the quality of how it feels like. Does it. Does it. Is it pain? Is it tender or is it just numb and tingling, kind of like when your foot goes to sleep?
P: I guess I have. It is a bit painful as well. Yeah, I have, like, a burning kind of pain.
D: Okay. And 1 to 10, 10 being the worst pain ever. How bad is this pain when it.
P: Gets to its worst? I would say about a six.
D: Okay. Okay. And have you ever experienced this before, or is this kind of like the first time you're experiencing this?
P: Yeah, this is the first, like, over these last few months. The first time I've been experiencing it. I think the first time that it started to wake me up at night, though, has been, like, about a couple of weeks ago.
D: Oh, I see. Okay. All right. And do you feel like your symptoms are getting worse over the past few weeks, or is it kind of the.
P: Same over these past couple weeks? About the same. It's woken me up, like, two or three times at night.
D: Okay. All right. And do you have any numbness or tingling elsewhere on your body?
P: No, it's just. Just kind of the. The outside of my hand here. It's really only the first, like, three fingers.
D: Okay. First three fingers. So your thumb, index finger and middle finger, or your pinky tube, middle finger?
P: Yeah, it's just my thumb, index finger, and ring finger. Yeah. Maybe there's like, a little bit of the, like, in of the ring finger too, but not all of it.
D: Okay. All right, so any weakness in your arms or do you feel like you can still use your arms? Okay.
P: Yeah, I haven't had any. Any muscle weakness? I guess I may be a bit more clumsy with. With my left hand. Like I've dropped a few things and I've had a little bit more difficult time like opening jars or like car doors and stuff like that.
D: Okay. Okay. And any confusion or memory loss?
P: No.
D: Headaches?
P: No.
D: Okay. How about weight loss?
P: No, I haven't had any weight loss.
D: Fevers or chills?
P: No.
D: Rashes?
P: No rashes.
D: Changes in your vision, hearing, smell or taste?
P: No, that's been normal.
D: Okay, how about a cough?
P: No, I haven't had a cough.
D: Okay. Wheezing or shortness of breath?
P: Nope, neither of those.
D: Chest pain or heart palpitations?
P: Nope, I haven't had that.
D: How about changes in your bowel movements?
P: Nope, I haven't had any diarrhea and no. No constipation and no blood either.
D: Okay, good. Any nausea or vomiting?
P: No, I haven't had any of that.
D: Okay. Any changes in your voiding?
P: No, I haven't had any problems with urination.
D: Okay. Are you otherwise healthy? Do you have any long standing medical conditions?
P: I have hypothyroidism and so I take thyroxine for that. And I am overweight as well or have immunobesity class one, I think.
D: Okay. And do you take any medications for the hypothyroid?
P: Yeah, I do. I take Synthroid.
D: Synthroid, okay. All right. And are you on any weight loss medications?
P: No, I've just been trying to change diet around when I can and trying to exercise a bit more, but it's been tough, especially now with my wrist or my hand bugging me.
D: Yeah, for sure. All right. And then are you up to date with your immunizations?
P: I am, yeah. And I get the flu shot every year.
D: Okay, that's good. And have you had any hospitalizations or surgeries in the past?
P: No, I haven't had anything like that, no.
D: Okay. Any allergies?
P: No allergies.
D: Okay. Family history of lung or heart conditions?
P: My grandfather had a stroke when he was in his 70s and my dad has high cholesterol.
D: Have you been worked up for all of that, like high blood pressure, diabetes, cholesterol?
P: Yeah, I think my family doctor checked a few years ago, but I've been healthy besides this pain, so maybe that. Yeah, maybe that can be investigated as well.
D: Okay. Any neurological or musculoskeletal issues in the family.
P: I think osteoarthritis. A few people have that.
D: Okay, how about autoimmune conditions?
P: No, I think I'm the only one with the thyroid.
D: Okay. How about cancers?
P: No cancer.
D: No cancers. Okay. All right. And then do you smoke?
P: I do, yeah. I smoke about five to ten cigarettes per day.
D: Okay. And for how long have you been doing that?
P: Probably, yeah, about the last 10 years. It was kind of around when I started working in the warehouse here, yeah.
D: Okay. And have you ever thought about quitting?
P: I have, yeah. I've tried. It's just such a. I mean, people just go out and, I mean, have their coffee and cigarette and it's sort of a social thing while at work. It's kind of what people do. So I have been trying to cut down, though.
D: Okay. Okay, that's good. If you need any resources, we have some that we can refer you to. And do you consume marijuana in any form?
P: No, I don't.
D: No. Okay. Any recreational drugs?
P: Nope. I don't use anything like that.
D: Okay. How about alcohol? Do you drink?
P: I'll have wine every once in a while on the weekends. Maybe a drink per week, something like that.
D: Okay. And have you been in contact with anyone sick recently?
P: No, I don't believe so.
D: Okay. How about travel?
P: No, I've been at home and just going to work.
D: Okay. And where do you live and who do you live with?
P: So I live with my husband and our two daughters, and we live. And we live in a house.
D: Okay. Any concerns for STIs?
P: No, I'm just. I've been monogamous with my partner now for over 10 years, and no concerns for an STI at this time.
D: Okay. All right, good. So now we're just going to move on to the physical exam part of this interview. So I'm going to get you to look at both your arms, hands and wrists side by side. Does your left one seem at all more red, swollen or hot?
P: No. No symptoms like that?
D: No. Okay. And does that one seem to be more atrophied or are there any deformities or skin changes on that one?
P: Maybe a little less muscle bulk on the. Like where my thumb is.
D: Okay. Okay. And then I'm going to get you to palpate certain areas of that arm. So let's start at the top when you. When you press down on your shoulder blades, or just at the very top of your arm where you're. Or at the very top where your arm connects to your shoulder. Does it hurt over there?
P: No. No pain there.
D: Okay, so no pain on the acromion process or the scapula. Any pain where your biceps are?
P: No.
D: No. Okay, how about at your elbows?
P: No pain at the elbows and full. I can move my elbows and shoulders, no problem either. And my neck doesn't hurt at all either. I can move my neck around.
D: How about when you palpate your wrists, both sides, median and lateral?
P: Yeah, no pain if I'm just pressing or palpating the wrist.
D: Okay. And I'm going to get you to straighten out your arm and flex at your shoulder and extend at your shoulder. Does that hurt?
P: No.
D: How about when you flex your elbow and extend your elbow?
P: No.
D: How about when you flex your wrist and extend your wrist?
P: No.
D: Okay, so I'm going to do a special test for something called carpal tunnel syndrome. So I'm gonna get you to straighten out your left arm again and right where. All right, how do we do this? Okay, so with your right hand or with your. Yeah, with your right index finger and middle finger, you're going to tap just below where the bulk of your thumb muscles are connecting to your wrist. I'm just going to get you to tap that area. Do you feel tingling, like an electric shock sensation in your hand or anything like that?
P: I do. Yeah, you do.
D: Okay, so that's a positive tenels sign. And then we're going to do one more test. So I'm going to. Okay, so make like a prayer motion with your hands, like putting your two palms together. And then. And then instead invert your hand so that the outer parts are touching and your fingers are pointing towards the ground. Okay, so kind of like an upside down, but with your outer parts of your hands touching. And then I'm going to get you to just hold your arms like that for about 60 seconds. Do you feel any tingling, numbness or pain in those fingers?
P: Yeah, I get a bit of numbness and tingling when. When I do that.
D: Okay, so that's a positive valence sign test. All right, so that brings me to the end of this interview. Did you have any questions or concerns? Anything that you wanted to bring up?
P: We're just wondering about what this could be.
D: Oh, yeah. So it seems like you have something called carpal tunnel syndrome. And that is, it's pretty common.
P: So.
D: It can be caused by a lot of things. But basically your median nerve runs through your forearm into your wrist and anything that squeezes or irritates that median nerve can lead to carpal tunnel syndrome. And some things include repetitive movements at work, obesity, any nerve damaging conditions like diabetes, inflammatory conditions but mostly just like workplace factors can, can do it especially if you're working with like vibrating tools or on an assembly line that requires like repetitive and prolonged flexing of the wrist. So so diagnosis we just do that through like symptoms. Physical exam, we don't really need to do any imaging at this point and to treat it it's basically work modification. So taking frequent breaks, not doing those repetitive movements as often and then you can do things at home like apply cold packs. And then we also have some like non surgical treatments where we can splint, we can put like a wrist splint while you sleep to relieve those nighttime symptoms. You can take some NSAIDs to relieve pain and if those don't work we can try corticosteroids and if that doesn't work then we can also discuss surgery sometime down the line. Does that sound okay?
P: It does, yeah. Thank you. Okay.
D: Yeah, no problem.
