D: What brings you in here today?
P: So my back has been killing me. It's been hurting for the past two months, but recently it's gotten worse. I'd say over the past week or two weeks it's gotten really bad. And no over the counter medication is helping with the pain. I'm finding it hard to walk. I can't feel anything in the groin area and I'm having so many bladder accidents.
D: Okay, and so this pain started two months ago, but it's progressed to like these other symptoms as well?
P: Yes, that's right.
D: Where did the pain start?
P: It started in my lower back.
D: Started in your lower back. Okay, and does the pain. How would you describe the pain? Is it like aching, sharp?
P: It's sharp.
D: Okay, and did anything happen prior to the pain? Any injuries at all that you experienced?
P: Two months ago I was in a motor vehicle accident and I think my back started hurting then. But they did some imaging and it's. And turned out like one of the discs, there was a slip in the disc or something. But at that point the pain was just achy and I didn't really have any of these other issues. But over the past two weeks it's gotten sharp and I'm having all these other symptoms.
D: Okay, and so you're having the sat, like what's called some numbness in your groin. Is that unilateral, like on one side or both sides?
P: It seems like it's both sides.
D: Okay. And so. And then you're also having the urinary incontinence. How long has that been going on?
P: For the past week.
D: Okay, and what about the numbness in your groin area?
P: That's been going on for the past week as well.
D: Okay, and how would you describe your pain right now on a scale of 1 to 10, 10 being the worst pain you felt?
P: I would say it's like an eight or nine.
D: Eight or nine. Okay. And does it get worse with any emotions at all?
P: I think it's worse with, I don't know, like it's worse with anything. Anytime. Anytime I try to move it, it hurts.
D: Okay, so you just improved with rest? Complete rest, yeah. Okay. Does it travel, does the pain travel anywhere else? Does it shoot down your legs at all?
P: Yeah, so it does shoot down my legs. And I'm having a hard time walking because of that.
D: Is it both legs or just one?
P: It's mostly on my right, but the left one isn't the same as it used to be either.
D: Okay.
P: Yeah, I'm having a hard time, like getting up from a Chair and things like that.
D: Okay. And anything that you've tried that has helped relieve some of your symptoms?
P: I've tried, like over the counter ibuprofen, tried some topical analgesics. Nothing seems to be working. Okay.
D: And have you experienced any trauma? So you mentioned you had a car accident, right? Two months ago?
P: Yes, that was. Yeah, that was two months ago.
D: Okay. And were you in the hospital, admitted to the hospital for. For a while or. How. What happened in your treatment?
P: Yeah, I was taken to the er. They did like a full workup on me. The only thing on my back that they found was a slipped disc. And then they said that should. That shouldn't cause me too much pain, but if I was having any of these symptoms that I'm having now, I should go back or see a doctor at least. And otherwise I was fine. Like, I didn't lose a lot of blood or I didn't need any surgical interventions at that point.
D: Okay, I see. And have you been having any other symptoms or any pain in any other joints or muscles?
P: No, no, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Any fevers or chills?
P: No.
D: Any night sweats?
P: Nope.
D: Any rashes or skin changes?
P: No.
D: Any kind of chest pain, shortness of breath?
P: No.
D: Any cough or cold like symptoms?
P: No.
D: Any. So you have some urinary incontinence, Any fecal incontinence?
P: No.
D: Okay. How's. Any recent changes in your weight?
P: No.
D: Have you been sick at all recently?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any tingling sensation either in your back or shooting down your legs?
P: No.
D: Any burning sensation?
P: A little bit of burning sensation, yeah.
D: Okay. Do you have any numbness in your lower limbs or just numbness around the groin?
P: Just numbness around the groin area, but my lower limbs just seem weak.
D: Okay, so you have muscle weakness. Is it just one leg that's weak or both legs?
P: So both legs seem weak, but the right more than the left.
D: Okay, I see. And does this weakness seem to get worse or is it around the same as it was when it started?
P: It feels like it's getting worse.
D: Okay. Do you have any past medical conditions you have been diagnosed with?
P: I had hypothyroid, so I've been taking Synthroid for that.
D: Okay. Any other medications?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any allergies to any medications?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any hospitalizations or previous surgeries?
P: No.
D: Any family history of any musculoskeletal or rheumatologic conditions?
P: No.
D: Currently. Do you work?
P: I do. I work from home right now. I'm a teacher.
D: Okay. And do you. Did you do any work previously that required heavy Lifting or strenuous activities regarding your back at all?
P: No, no, nothing like that.
D: And what's tier home and living situation like? Right now?
P: I live at home with two of my children.
D: Okay. And are you able to do things at home that you were before, like, or do you need some extra help from your family members or extra help from other workers, anything like that?
P: Yeah, my family's definitely been helping me out a lot over these past few weeks because, yeah, like I said, like, I'm having some weakness in my legs. I can't move around as much because I'm in so much pain. And then, like, there are all these, like, bladder accidents. So, yeah, they've been helping me out with everyday things.
D: Okay, I see. And currently, do you smoke?
P: No.
D: Okay. Do you drink alcohol?
P: No.
D: And any recreational drugs like marijuana?
P: No.
D: Okay, I'm just getting at you to do a few things on just as part of the physical examination. Are you able to bend down or extend your back at all, or is it too painful?
P: Yeah, I can't do that. It's too painful.
D: Do you notice any kind of redness swelling in and around your back?
P: Not that I can tell.
D: Okay, and how about if you press down on your lower back? Does it hurt?
P: Yeah, that hurts.
D: Okay. And are you experiencing the numbness right now in your groin area?
P: I am.
D: Are you able to raise your legs when in a lying position with straight legs, knees not bending at all? Are you able to raise without any pain?
P: No, I can't do that. It's too painful.
D: All right, so those are all the questions I had for you. So it seems. It's great. It's good that you came to the emergency department. Do you have any questions at all?
P: No, just like, how can I fix this?
D: Yeah. So based on your symptoms, it's something that's pretty urgent. It seems like you may be having something called cauda equina syndrome that may be caused by your back pain. And that's why you're feeling the groin, what we call saddle anesthesia, and then the urinary incontinence. So this may be from the injury that you had with the car accident, and it may be due to some compression of what we call, like, compression of the nerves in the area which might be giving you some of these symptoms. So the first thing we do need to do is get an MRI of your lower back just to make sure there's nothing going on. Like, for example, like any masses in the area or any kind of abscesses that we may be worried about. Just to make sure. Well, just to see what's going on in there that's causing these symptoms. And then based on what we find, we will target the cause of these symptoms. For example, if it's an infection that's causing this, you might need to be admitted and require antibiotics. If there's any masses causing it, you may require surgery. For example, if it's mainly related to your back, it is something that we will have to treat with an admission. So it's good that you came in here today. Do you have any other questions or concerns?
P: No, that was it. Thank you so much for your help.
D: You're welcome. And we'll get back to you shortly.
