D: What brings you in?
P: I just came in because I just got into, like, this incident while I was playing rugby. I kind of got tackled and then fell onto my right shoulder after I got up. I've just been. This happened a couple hours ago, actually, and I've just been in intense pain in my right shoulder and I can't seem to move it at all.
D: Okay. And. Sorry, when was this exactly?
P: Probably two hours ago.
D: Two hours ago. Okay. And is this pain persistent or is it, like on and off?
P: It's. It's constant. It hasn't gone away at all.
D: Okay, 1 to 10, 10 being the worst. How bad is this pain?
P: I don't know. Like, probably like eight or eight or nine.
D: Eight or nine, huh? Okay. And is it a sharp kind of pain or is it delinquent?
P: It's. It's sharp. Like, if I try to move it at all, it's like a sharp pain.
D: Okay. And have you ever had anything like this in the past?
P: No. Never?
D: Never. Okay. And are you able to move your arm at all or you can to move it?
P: I could move my fingers and hand and elbow, but elbow a little bit, but, like. Yeah, I can't move my shoulder whatsoever.
D: And do you. Are you experiencing any tingling or numbness?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: Okay, how about any muscle weakness.
P: In that area? I don't know if it's weakness or pain, but yeah, I just can't move it. And I do feel some, like, numbness just above my shoulder. No tingling, though.
D: Okay. Any pain elsewhere on your body?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. Any headaches? No confusion or memory loss? No weight loss? No fevers or chills? No rashes? No changes in your vision, hearing, smell, or taste? No coughing, shortness of breath or wheezing? No chest pain or heart palpitations? No changes in your bowel movements? No changes in voiding?
P: No.
D: Okay. And then with regards to this pain, does anything make it better or worse?
P: Not anything that I've tried that to made it better. Worse is probably just if I try to move it at all.
D: Okay. And the pain's in your shoulder, does it radiate down or up elsewhere?
P: Mostly towards my shoulder, kind of down towards my upper arm as well.
D: Okay, I see. All right. And are you otherwise healthy? Do you have any other medical conditions?
P: No. Yeah, they're always unhealthy. I've never been to the doctor much.
D: Okay. All right. And are you on any medications?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. And are you up to date with your immunizations?
P: Yes.
D: Okay. Do you have any allergies no. Any family history of musculoskeletal diseases?
P: No, not that I know of.
D: Okay, and any family history of autoimmune conditions?
P: No.
D: Okay. Do you smoke at all?
P: No.
D: Do you consume marijuana?
P: No.
D: Do you drink alcohol?
P: No, just with friends sometimes on the weekends, but not really.
D: Okay, and then where do you live right now and who do you live with?
P: I live just outside of town with my parents in a house.
D: Okay, and have you traveled anywhere recently?
P: No, I've been at home.
D: Okay. Any sick contacts?
P: No.
D: No. Okay, so now we're just going to move on to the physical exam part of this. So can you take a look at both your shoulders and let me know if you see any redness or swelling?
P: I don't think I see any redness or swelling, but my right shoulder and my arm just seems a little bit lower than my left one.
D: Okay. Okay. Any warmth on that shoulder?
P: No, not that I can feel.
D: Okay. Any atrophy, deformities or skin changes?
P: For me, I do feel like kind of like my shoulders dropped and like there's just kind of this little like divots where like the shoulder should be.
D: Okay. Okay. And can you palpate that area for me? Just the bones in that area so like right where you're arm would connect to your shoulder and then kind of along your shoulder blade. Does that hurt when you press down?
P: Yeah, it hurts a lot.
D: Okay, so some tenderness and pain in the chroming process and scapula. And if you press down on your biceps, triceps, does that hurt?
P: Not as much, no.
D: No. Okay, and then can I get you to. Can you lift your shoulder up at all? Like, to where. To the point where your fingers are touch, like reaching the ceiling?
P: No, I can't. I can't move it at all.
D: All right, so it sounds like you have a shoulder dislocation. So we are going to do an X ray of your shoulder joint first to make sure that it's just a dislocation and there aren't any broken bones or fractures. And then we can resolve this by doing something called a close reduction to try to put the joint back in its place. And if that closed reduction doesn't work, then you may need surgery for like a weak shoulder joint or if like ligaments aren't like, strong enough and it continues to happen.
P: Okay.
D: Otherwise we can keep it immobilized for a few days to a few weeks, depending on how bad the dislocation is. And then once that's removed, you can do some rehab as well to restore some range of motion. Does that sound like a good plan? Do you have any questions or concerns in the meantime?
P: No, I think that's great.
D: Okay.
