D: What brings you in?
P: Hi. Yesterday I was grocery shopping, and just in the parking lot, somebody bumped into my car. And this morning I woke up and my neck is just really painful. It hurt yesterday a little bit, but, I mean, it was so mild I didn't think much of it. But today it's quite a bit worse.
D: Okay, so can you tell me how this accident happened? Were you sitting in the passenger seat and the driver's seat? And was the impact from, like, behind at the back of your car or at the front?
P: It was at the back. So I was the driver and was just going over a speed bump in the parking lot, so slowed down quite a bit, and the person behind me must not have. And they bumped into me. There's just some scratches on the bumper. They didn't hit too hard, but I guess maybe hard enough.
D: Okay, and did the neck pain start immediately after?
P: No, it's like, not immediately. Yeah, I think it started a bit later on, and then worse, a bit of it today.
D: Okay. All right. And is there pain anywhere else on your body?
P: Like my. No, just. Just really my neck.
D: Okay. Okay. And does anything feel broken? Are there bruises anywhere? Any obvious signs of trauma?
P: No, I can't. I didn't notice anything like that. And I can move my neck around, so I don't think any. I don't think anything's broken.
D: Okay.
P: Just hurts a lot.
D: All right. And is the pain constantly there or does it come and go?
P: It kind of comes and goes. It just. It's worse with movement. If I just kind of sit still, I don't notice much pain, but if I'm bending my head forward or mostly backwards, so I'll get. Get pain.
D: Okay. And you said this happened yesterday, right?
P: Yeah, yeah, this happened yesterday afternoon.
D: Okay. And does anything make this better? Like, have you tried ice, any topicals, any positions that helps with the pain?
P: I did try some, like, Advil last night, but when the pain was coming on, and it must have helped me sleep, I guess. But I haven't tried any ice or anything like that. Just mostly, I guess, resting.
D: Okay, so you said the pain is at the back of the neck. Does it radiate anywhere up into your head or down into your shoulders or lower or upper back?
P: Maybe a little bit to the upper back, like when the, like, trap. Trapezius muscle area or the traps like it. If I push on those muscles around that area, I do get a little bit of tenderness.
D: Okay. Okay. And if you were to describe the quality of this pain, would you say it's sharp, dull, Achy, throbbing. How would you describe it?
P: I would say it's sharp. Yeah. Especially if I do any movements like it'll be feels like, I mean, stabbed in the neck.
D: Okay. All right. And have you ever had it, had pain like this in the past?
P: No, this is the first time.
D: Okay. And do you feel like it's getting worse, the pain, since it started yesterday?
P: Yeah. At first I didn't even have any pain at all. Maybe it was just the adrenaline pumping or whatever, but now I can notice the pain.
D: Okay. Okay. And 1 to 10, 10 being the worst pain you've ever felt, how bad is this pain?
P: It would be? I would say probably a six or a seven.
D: Okay. Okay. And have you had any tingling or numbness?
P: No, I haven't had anything like that.
D: Okay. Any dizziness or fainting spells? No confusion or memory loss?
P: No.
D: Any headaches?
P: No, no.
D: Okay. And is this affecting your sleep at all?
P: No. Well, I guess like last night it was a little bit more difficult because I was just. I slept just on my back so that I wasn't moving around as much. So that was a little bit awkward. But I was able to sleep though.
D: Okay. I know you said you have some pain with certain movements, but do you find it's hard to move your neck at all?
P: It feels a bit stiff, but like I'm able to move it, but yeah, it feels stiff.
D: Okay. Any issues with vision? Like, is it blurry?
P: No.
D: No. How about ringing in your ears?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. Any confusion? Sorry I asked that. Any issues concentrating on tasks?
P: Yeah, this morning I guess it's been a little bit more difficult to focus on things, but maybe I was just focusing on the pain in my neck.
D: Yeah, for sure. Any fevers or chills?
P: No.
D: Any changes in your weight?
P: No, my weight's been the same.
D: Okay. Any changes to your hearing?
P: No, that's been normal.
D: Smell or taste?
P: That's been normal.
D: Chest pain or heart palpitations?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. No cough, sharpness of breath or wheezing?
P: Nope, none of that.
D: How about issues with your bowel movements?
P: No, I haven't had any diarrhea or any constipation? Nothing like that.
D: Okay. Any nausea or vomiting?
P: No nausea or vomiting.
D: Changes in your appetite?
P: No, my appetite's been good.
D: Okay. How about changes in urine?
P: No, I haven't had any changes to. Or any urinary symptoms at all.
D: Okay. Okay, that's good. And are you otherwise healthy? Do you have any long standing medical conditions?
P: No, I am otherwise healthy. I just take birth control and a multivitamin but that's it. So no medical conditions.
D: Okay. All right, that's good. And have you had any hospitalizations or surgeries in the past?
P: No, I haven't.
D: No. Okay. How about medications? Are you on any?
P: Just the. The birth control that I'm taking. I've been taking that for about five years now.
D: Five years. Okay. Any side effects or any issues with that?
P: No, it's been good. I've been really happy with it overall to help regulate my cycles.
D: Okay. Okay, good. And then are you up to date with your immunizations?
P: I am, yes. I'll get the flu shot every year.
D: Okay, that's good. Do you have any allergies?
P: I do, yeah, but it's. I think they're just all environmental because I'll typically get issues with seasonal changes and then. Then it goes away.
D: Oh, I see. Okay. Any family history of lung or heart conditions?
P: I think my dad has high blood pressure and diabetes, but no heart or lung conditions.
D: Okay. How about musculoskeletal issues?
P: I think maybe osteoarthritis of my grandparents, but.
D: Okay.
P: Yeah.
D: How about autoimmune conditions?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: No. Okay. How about cancers?
P: No cancers.
D: Okay. And then do you smoke?
P: No, I don't.
D: No. Okay.
P: Yeah, I've never smoked before.
D: Okay, how about marijuana? Do you consume that in any form?
P: No, I don't.
D: Okay. And then do you drink alcohol?
P: Every once in a while I'll have a glass of wine, but it's usually a social thing or at Christmas.
D: Okay. How about in terms of sick contacts? Have you had any recently?
P: I don't believe so. I've been going to work. I work as a bank teller, but everybody at work hasn't been sick, and we've been using masks and cleaning our hands and all of that sort of thing.
D: Okay. Okay, that's good. And how about travel? Have you had any recently?
P: No, we've been at home. Been looking forward to a vacation, though.
D: Yeah, for sure. And then where do you work and who do you live with and where do you live?
P: Yeah, so I work at a bank and I live with my husband and our son. He's six.
D: Okay. Okay. Okay. Those are all the questions I have for history. We can move on to the physical exam part of this interview. Did you have any questions before we did that?
P: No. No. That sounds good.
D: Okay. So if you have someone there with you, or if you have a mirror, or if there's any way you can take a look at the back of your neck as well as the front of Your neck, do you see any redness or swelling in that area?
P: No, I don't.
D: No. Okay, do you see any muscle atrophy, any deformities or skin changes?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. And then when you kind of just with the back of your hand, place it on your neck in the front as well as the back, does it feel warm at all?
P: No.
D: No. Okay, and then I'm going to get you to palpate certain areas. So we'll start with the chin. Does that hurt when you press down?
P: No.
D: No. Okay, how about just where the thyroid would be?
P: No pain or. Yeah, no pain there.
D: Okay.
P: There.
D: Okay. How about to the sides, kind of where your sternocleidomastoid muscles are?
P: Yeah, I think, like, a little bit of tenderness in the front of the neck muscles there.
D: Okay. And then how about when you move towards the back and then on your C spine, cervical spine, just like at the very back of your neck?
P: Yeah. So there's no pain. When I push on the bones, I can feel like. So actually on the C spine itself, there's no pain, but off to the side. So on the muscles to the sides, there's a bit of tenderness.
D: Okay, so kind of like where. So there's pain on the trapezius and deltoid muscles.
P: Yeah, more trapezius. Not so. Not so much deltoid. And then also like the paraspinal muscles.
D: Okay, I see. All right. Okay. And then so let's move on to some range of motion exams. So I'm gonna get you to flex your neck. So look down at the ground all the way as much as you can. Does that hurt?
P: It does, yeah, it does.
D: Okay, but you're able to fully flex your neck?
P: Yeah, I can touch my chin to my chest almost, but yeah, I'll get pain at the back of my neck when I do that. And the front.
D: And the front. Okay. And then how about when you extend your head all the way back so that you're looking at the ceiling?
P: I'm able to do it still. It's a bit stiff and it's slow to get there. But again, I get pain at the back and the front of my neck when I'm doing this.
D: Okay. Okay. How about when you flex your neck to the side so that your right ear is touching your right shoulder?
P: Yeah, there's a little bit of pain in the muscles on the left side when I'm doing that.
D: Okay. And then how about when you do the opposite? Touch your left ear to your left shoulder so that you're laterally Flexing your neck on the left side.
P: Little bit of pain there too. But I'm able to do it, though.
D: Okay, so you're able to do all of these. It's just that you have some pain when you do that.
P: Yeah, exactly. I could do all of the movements, but yeah, pain and stiffness.
D: Okay. Okay. Those are all the questions that I had for you. Did you have any questions of your own?
P: No, I just was wondering if I. If you think I needed an X ray or like you think that anything's broken. That's what I was kind of like concerned about today when I had this pain for sure.
D: So right now it just. To me it sounds like a whiplash injury, so kind of like low impact. But just to be certain, we can order an X ray to rule out any fractures or dislocations. And in terms of, like, the management plan for pain management, you can rest. You can either apply heat or cold packs to your neck for 15 minutes every couple of hours or so. You can try some over the counter pain medications like ibuprofen or Tylenol. And if it still doesn't get better, we can try, like, we can try injections to the area to relieve some of that pain. But something else in conjunction we can try is physiotherapy. And they'll basically help you with range of motion exercises and try to strengthen the muscles in that area and to improve your posture and normal movement. That's kind of where we can start for now. And if it doesn't get any better, we can talk about alternative management plans. Does that sound okay?
P: It does. Yeah. That makes sense. Thank you.
D: Okay. Yeah, no worries.
