D: How may I help you?
P: So I've had this ankle pain for the past day, and it doesn't seem to be getting better. My right ankle looks swollen and it's bruised and it's pretty painful, so I just wanted to come here to check it out, see if I need any thing done to it.
D: Yeah, absolutely. Okay, so you said that this started yesterday. Was there any, like, trauma to the ankle or leg, or did you have a fall or some sort of injury?
P: Yeah, so I play rugby and I might have. So I fell during a tackle motion type thing, and I fell on that leg. And my leg, my foot kind of pointed inwards as I fell, and I kind of fell on my ankle kind of just above my lateral side of the foot, so where that bony prominence is.
D: Okay, I see. And your foot kind of turned inwards when you fell?
P: Yes, that's right.
D: Okay, and was there pain immediately after the. This incident?
P: Yes.
D: Okay. Were you able to, like, walk off the field at all, or did you need to be carried or were you able to walk at any point after?
P: So I can walk, but it is very painful, and I'm putting a lot of weight on my left foot, so it's almost like I'm hopping on my left foot.
D: Okay. And is the pain actually. So where is the pain specifically located on your foot or ankle?
P: So it's specifically. It's on the, like, lateral malleolus area.
D: Okay. And how would you describe the pain in terms of its character, quality? Like, is it sharp? Burning, stinging?
P: It feels sharp.
D: Okay, and do you feel the pain radiating anywhere else?
P: No, it's pretty much in that area, just in the ankle area.
D: Okay. And has there been anything you've tried to make the pain better?
P: I've tried some ibuprofen and some ice. That seems to help temporarily, but it doesn't help with like. Like, it's not permanent.
D: Okay. And has there been anything that's made it worse?
P: Just putting weight or, like, trying to bear any weight on that ankle has made it worse.
D: Okay, and what would you say the severity of the pain is on a scale of 10 to 1, with 10 being the worst pain you've ever felt?
P: I'd say it's like a seven or eight.
D: Okay. And have you ever had a pain like this before to the ankle or have you ever injured your foot before?
P: No, nothing like this.
D: Okay. And have you had any. Any headaches?
P: No headaches.
D: Okay. And have you had any fevers or chills?
P: No.
D: How about night sweats?
P: No.
D: Have you had any unexpected weight Loss?
P: No.
D: Okay. And have you had any sensory changes, like changes to your vision, hearing, or even your sense of smell or sense of taste?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. And have you had any neurological symptoms, such as, like, numbness or tingling?
P: No.
D: Okay. Have you noticed any sensory loss over your leg or ankle?
P: No. No. No sensory loss.
D: Okay. And have you had any muscle weakness?
P: No.
D: Okay. And have you had any infectious symptoms, like having, like, a runny nose or feeling congested or maybe even a sore throat?
P: No.
D: All right. And have you had a cough?
P: No. Cough.
D: How about shortness of breath?
P: No.
D: All right, have you had any chest pain or feeling like your heart's racing?
P: No.
D: Have you had any dizziness or lightheadedness?
P: No.
D: All right, and have you had any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: How about any loss of appetite?
P: No.
D: Have you had any abdominal pain?
P: No.
D: Have you had any diarrhea, constipation, or blood in the stool?
P: No.
D: Okay. And have you had any changes to urinary patterns?
P: No.
D: Okay. And have you had any changes to your energy recently?
P: No, no changes to my energy.
D: All right. And in the past, have you been diagnosed with any medical conditions or any reason to see a doctor regularly?
P: No, I've been pretty healthy otherwise.
D: Okay, so do you take any medications regularly, either over the counter or prescribed?
P: No.
D: All right, and do you have any allergies?
P: No.
D: Okay. And are your immunizations up to date?
P: I think so. The most recent ones I've received in high school.
D: Okay. Okay, that's good. And have you had any surgeries before or any reasons for hospitalizations?
P: No, I've never. Yeah, I've never been hospitalized.
D: Okay. And can you tell me a little bit about your living situation right now, like who you're living with and whereabouts?
P: I live with both my parents, as well as two of my siblings. They're younger. We live in a house downtown.
D: Okay. And are you currently in school?
P: I am. I'm in grade 11.
D: Okay, awesome. And how's that been going so far?
P: It's been going pretty well.
D: Okay. And have you been around anybody who's been sick recently?
P: No, no one's been sick.
D: Okay, and how about. Have you traveling anywhere?
P: No, we haven't been doing any of that since COVID Okay.
D: And I know sometimes people, like in high school and certainly in your age group may experience with things like smoking. Smoking tobacco or cigarettes, drinking alcohol or using marijuana. Have you used any of those. Those substances?
P: No.
D: Okay. And are you currently sexually active?
P: I am.
D: Okay. And could you tell me about your partners or. Partner?
P: Yeah. She's been my girlfriend for the past two years, and we use protection.
D: Okay, great. And any concerns for any sexually transmitted infection at this time?
P: No.
D: Okay. And in the family, has there been any history of musculoskeletal or neurological problems?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay, and how about any autoimmune conditions?
P: No.
D: Okay, so next, I just wanted to move to the physical exam component, and I'll ask you to have a look at your ankles. And are you seeing any swelling or, like, redness or discoloration?
P: So I. There's a. Like, there's a bruise about 4 cm wide, and it appears swollen, but just my right ankle.
D: Just your right ankle. Okay. And is there any temperature changes, like warmth when you touch it?
P: Slightly warm, yeah.
D: Okay. And are you seeing any muscle atrophy or deformities of the. Of the ankle or foot?
P: No.
D: Okay. And if you press on areas of your ankle and foot, do you feel pain at the lateral malleolus or the medial malleolus?
P: There's a lot of pain on the lateral malleolus.
D: Okay. And do you feel pain if you press on the top of your foot? Like.
P: On the. No. No pain at the top of my foot.
D: Okay, and how about on the, like, outside or lateral aspect of your foot? You'll feel a kind of. It's a bony prominence that sticks out at the base of the foot or your kind of last metatarsal. Is there any pain there?
P: No. No pain there.
D: Okay, and then how about any pains on the, like, medial side of your foot?
P: On the medial side? No.
D: Okay. And then when it comes to moving the foot, are you able to point your toes on your foot up towards your face?
P: Up towards my face. That's hard.
D: Okay, so dorsiflexion is limited. And how about pushing your foot down like you're pressing on a gas pedal?
P: I can do that, but it's still painful just to move the ankle.
D: Okay, so plantar flexion is. Is painful as well. And then any issues with moving your toes?
P: No.
D: Okay. And then you mentioned that with walking, you're having a limp currently.
P: Yes.
D: Okay, so an intelligent gait with an inability to bear weight as well. Okay. So that was everything that I wanted to ask and check today. And based on these features, it is sounding like it could be either an ankle fracture or an ankle sprain. But because of the pinpoint tenderness that you're finding on the lateral side, as well as some of the inability to bear weight as you're describing, it'll be important to get an x ray to make sure that there's not a fracture. And if there is, then it'll be important to have some sort of air boot or casting to make sure that we're offloading the area for the bones to heal. But we'll see what the X ray shows.
P: Okay, that sounds great. Thank you.
D: Thank you.
