D: What brings you in?
P: I've had this pain in the right buttock area. It's been really intense, and more recently, I'm feeling it radiate just down my right leg as well.
D: Okay. And. Sorry, when did you say it started?
P: So it's been going on for. Well, it's just gotten really intense in the last, like, two days.
D: Okay, and before that, did you have any pain at all or was it just, like, sudden?
P: Yeah, I do have a bit of pain down in my. In the buttock area, but it's just gotten really. It's gotten more painful over these last couple of days.
D: Okay, and is it a persistent kind of pain or does it come and go?
P: It's persistent. It does get worse, though, depending on what I'm doing.
D: Okay, when does it get worse?
P: Well, it gets worse with walking, with sitting, really, like, any kinds of movements. I just got to kind of stay still, and that's the only thing that really helps it.
D: Okay. Have you tried anything for it?
P: Yeah, I've just taken some pain medications over the counter for these last a couple of days, like that, Advil, and Tylenol, but that's it.
D: Okay, and is it helping?
P: It does. I mean, not really. It hasn't really helped much.
D: Okay. All right. And if you were to describe the quality of the pain, would you say it's sharp, dull, achy, throbby?
P: It kind of. It's like a sharp pain in the buttock, and it is kind of like burning down the leg.
D: Okay. Okay. So a radicular kind of pain, then. Okay. And if you were to rate the severity of your pain, 1 to 10, 10 being the worst pain you've ever felt, what would you rate it?
P: Eight.
D: Okay. And does this pain radiate elsewhere? I know you said it starts on your buttocks, kind of goes down your legs. Does it go up your back or down into the other leg at all?
P: No, I feel it just. Just in the buttock and down the leg.
D: Okay. Have you ever experienced this kind of pain before?
P: I have, yeah. I'm a truck driver, and so I do a lot of sitting, and I've had kind of sciatic pain in the past.
D: Okay, and have you ever had any, like, trauma or anything that could have triggered this initially in the past?
P: No, I don't think so. I don't. Haven't really done much. Just kind of work and, yeah, I haven't had any trauma to the back or anything like that.
D: Okay, and are you experiencing any sort of weakness with their legs?
P: No, no weakness. Just. Well, yeah, maybe, I guess. Maybe. Yeah, maybe a little bit of leg weakness. I have had. I've had a little bit of difficulty walking. Been limping.
D: Oh, I see. Okay. Okay. And just in your right leg, right?
P: Yeah.
D: Any urinary or stool incontinence?
P: No, no.
D: Okay. Any sexual dysfunction?
P: No, I haven't had anything like that.
D: Okay. Any numbness or tingling?
P: Yeah, I've had some numbness and tingling down the right leg.
D: Okay. How about in the groin area?
P: No, it's just kind of down the back of my leg.
D: Okay. All right. And otherwise, do you have any other symptoms?
P: No, it's just been. Just been this pain.
D: Okay. All right. And I'll just kind of go through some questions with you. Do you have any joint pains or muscle aches elsewhere?
P: No.
D: No weight loss?
P: No weight loss.
D: Fevers or chills?
P: No fevers or chills.
D: Rashes?
P: No. Rashes.
D: Changes to your vision, hearing, smell or taste?
P: No.
D: Are you coughing, having shortness of breath or wheezing?
P: No, I haven't been having any symptoms like that.
D: Okay. Any chest pain, palpitations or dizziness or fainting spells?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Any changes to your bowel movements?
P: No diarrhea or constipation.
D: And no bleeding in the stool?
P: No blood in the stool.
D: Okay. And then how about nausea or vomiting?
P: No, I haven't had any nausea or vomiting.
D: Okay, Changes to your urine?
P: No, no changes to the urine.
D: Okay. And are you otherwise healthy? Do you have any long standing medical conditions?
P: I do have high blood pressure and high cholesterol and I take medications for those. I take amlodipine and a statin.
D: Okay. Do you have any other medical conditions? Are you on any other medications besides those?
P: Just a multivitamin.
D: Okay. And are you up to date with all your immunizations?
P: I am, yes.
D: Okay. Any allergies?
P: No, I don't believe so.
D: No. Family history of musculoskeletal or neurological issues?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Autoimmune conditions?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Cancers?
P: No, no.
D: Okay. And do you smoke?
P: Yeah, I smoke about half a pack of cigarettes per day.
D: Okay. For how long have you been doing that?
P: Yeah, about 40 years.
D: 40 years. Okay. Have you ever thought of quitting?
P: I have, yeah. I've cut down over the years. I used to smoke more. It's just the culture with. I don't know, everybody's driving a truck and smoking.
D: Okay. Yeah, that's hard. If you ever need any resources, we have some that we can refer you to.
P: Thank you.
D: Yeah, no worries. And do you consume marijuana?
P: No. I don't.
D: Okay, how about other recreational drugs?
P: Nope, nothing like that before.
D: Okay. Do you drink alcohol?
P: Yeah, I'll have a beer or two on the weekend, so maybe a couple of drinks per week.
D: Okay, and how about sick contacts? Have you been in touch with any recently?
P: No, I haven't been around anybody who's been sick.
D: Okay, Any travel recently?
P: Just for the drop offs that I. That I make driving. I do have to make some pretty long hauls back and forth. Yeah.
D: Okay, and where do you currently live?
P: So I live in a house with my. With my wife. Yeah. And son.
D: Okay. All right. And. Okay, so now I'm just gonna move on to the physical exam part of this and I'm gonna ask you to do a few things. Okay. So just by looking at your legs or if you have a mirror and you can look at your right buttock area, do you see any swelling or redness?
P: No, I don't see anything like that.
D: Okay, and does it feel hot?
P: No, it doesn't feel hot.
D: Okay, and do you see any skin changes?
P: No skin changes.
D: Any atrophy or deformity in the area?
P: No, no.
D: Has your gait changed? Like, does it. Are you limping, hobbling, anything like that?
P: Yeah, I feel like I've been limping a little bit. Yeah.
D: Are you putting more pressure on the.
P: Left foot then I am? Yeah. Yeah, I guess there's like an entalgic gait.
D: Okay. All right. And then if you press down on your hip bone, do you feel any pain there on your right hip bone?
P: No, I don't.
D: Okay, how about when you press down on your buttocks itself?
P: Yeah, there is a little bit of tenderness over the buttock area.
D: Okay, how about the back of your legs?
P: No.
D: Okay, how about the front of your leg? Thighs?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. All right. And then I'm gonna just get you to do a few movements with me as well. Would you. Okay. So are you sitting down right now?
P: Yeah.
D: Okay, Would you mind standing up from a sitting position?
P: Yeah, for sure.
D: Does that hurt?
P: Yeah, that causes pain.
D: Okay, so that causes. So hip. Hip extension. That causes some pain and as well as knee extension. So would you mind kicking your right leg up in front of you, all the way up as far as you can go? Does that hurt?
P: It does. Yeah.
D: Okay, so right hip flexion also causes pain. And then would you mind folding your knees backwards and just sort of flexing it? Does that hurt?
P: No.
D: Okay, so no pain on knee flexion. And how about when you point your feet and toes up towards the ceiling?
P: Yeah. I do get some pain when my. Yeah, when that's all straightened out. Yeah.
D: Okay, so some pain on plantar flexion of the right foot. And how about if you point your feet and toes towards the ground?
P: No pain there.
D: Okay. All right. And how about when you kick your legs to the side and upwards?
P: Oh, no pain with abduction.
D: Okay, so no pain on right hip abduction. And then how about when you bring it back down?
P: No.
D: Okay. And no pain on hip adduction. Okay. Well, those were all the questions that I had for you. Do you have any questions? For myself.
P: Just wondering about possibly, like, what it could be.
D: Yeah. So it sounds right now like you may have some sort of sacral nerve radiculopathy or like a lower lumbar radiculopathy. Basically, that's known as sciatica, where your nerve roots can be compressed, causing some of these symptoms. And to diagnose these things, usually it's just done by history and physical exam. But if after we try out some management things, it doesn't go away, or you're having some red flags, including numbness in the groin area, bowel or bladder incontinence, then we can look at some imaging for the spine, including mri. And so in terms of management of this, we can try a couple of conservative approaches first. So that includes taking NSAIDs for the pain and then like activity modification. So if you're sitting down all the time, perhaps like taking little breaks, stretching out your legs, doing some physio as well during those breaks can help. And as well, I'm going to give you a referral for physical therapy and they'll do some exercises with you and slowly increase those exercises. And if those still don't work, we can try steroids, steroid injections as well. We talked about the imaging. If it doesn't go away in about six to eight weeks. Does that sound okay?
P: Yeah, that sounds good. Thank you.
D: Okay. Yeah, no problem.
