D: How can I help you?
P: Hi. I just was brought in here today. I had a fall just waking up, coming down the stairs. I fell off the last few stairs and just fell onto the right side and right onto my hip. And now I couldn't even. I could barely stand up and put any weight on my hip. It's the right hip.
D: Okay, so what caused you to fall in the first place? Did you just lose balance? Were you dizzy?
P: I think I just. I missed. I wasn't dizzy or anything. I just missed one of the steps and just slipped. Slipped down the stairs. But it was just the last few stairs. I didn't have like, I didn't hit my head or anything like that.
D: Okay, and when was this?
P: This was so I guess now two hours ago.
D: Two hours ago. Okay. Has the pain been constant since?
P: Yeah, it's. It's really excruciating.
D: Okay. Does anything make it better or worse?
P: No, it's. I'm just in extreme pain. Like, I can't even put any weight on it.
D: Okay, so you can't. Okay, so you can't weight bear and you can't walk on. On that leg, I guess. Okay. Is it a sharp kind of pain or is it dull and achy?
P: It's pretty sharp. Like if I'm not putting any weight on it right now, it's like really achy, but if I put any weight on, it's really sharp.
D: Okay, and where is this pain exactly? Is it just in your right hip or is it radiating up into your upper lower back or down to your leg?
P: It's in the right hip, mostly just on the side, but the pain is kind of like all over the right side of my groin. And I feel like there's some sweet swelling there as well.
D: Okay, and 1 to 10, 10 being the worst pain ever. How bad is your pain?
P: I would say 10. Like, I've never experienced pain like this.
D: 10. Okay. And do you. Have you ever had pain like this before? Like, have you ever had a fall in the past?
P: No, this is the first time I've had a fall.
D: Okay, Any numbness or tingling?
P: No, not that I can tell.
D: No dizziness or fainting spells.
P: After the fallout? Like, just. I don't know if it's due to the pain, but even in the ambulance, coming out of the ambulance, I was feeling a little bit dizzy, but I don't know if that's just because of the pain.
D: Okay, any headaches? No confusion or memory loss? No joint pains or muscle aches elsewhere? No weight loss recently? No fevers or Chills?
P: No.
D: And rashes?
P: No.
D: Any changes to your vision, hearing, smell or taste?
P: No.
D: Are you experiencing any coughs, shortness of breath or wheezing?
P: No.
D: Okay, how about chest pain or heart palpitations?
P: No, not that I have experienced.
D: Okay, how about changes to your bowel movements?
P: Nope.
D: Okay, how about changes to your urine?
P: No, nothing.
D: Okay. And are you otherwise healthy? Do you have any long standing medical conditions?
P: Yes, I just have. I do have some osteoarthritis and then I take this medication for blood pressure. It's called Ramapril.
D: Okay. Okay. And is that the only medication that you're on?
P: Yeah, and then I'm just on vitamins, like vitamin D, calcium, and just multivitamins.
D: Okay. And are you up to date with your immunizations? Yeah, yeah. Okay. Any allergies?
P: No, not that I know of.
D: Okay. Any family history of lung or heart conditions?
P: I think my father, he died of a heart attack in his 60s.
D: Okay. Okay. Any musculoskeletal issues?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: No. How about autoimmune conditions?
P: No, not that I know.
D: Any cancers?
P: I think my mother had some skin cancer, but the ones that she didn't need any surgery, they just zapped them off.
D: Okay. And do you smoke?
P: No, I've never smoked.
D: Okay. Do you drink alcohol?
P: Just maybe like a wine. Every other day a glass of wine.
D: Okay. And do you consume marijuana in any form?
P: No.
D: Okay. And how about in terms of where you live, who do you live with and where do you live?
P: I live with just my husband and we just live in a small apartment.
D: Okay. And have you been in touch with anyone sick recently?
P: No, I've been like at home with my husband. We haven't really left.
D: Okay, and have you done any travel recently?
P: No, I've just stayed at home.
D: Okay. All right, so let's move on to the physical exam part of this interview. So if you can, I'm going to get you to take a look at both your hips as well as your legs. Do you notice any redness or swelling in the area?
P: I do notice some swelling. It's a little bit red. I can't really see too much red.
D: Okay. Okay. Any muscle atrophy, any deformities or skin changes, like bruises.
P: Maybe some bruising, but I don't notice anything else.
D: Okay. All right. And then when you place the back of your hand on both hips, do you notice any temperature changes? Is one side warmer than the other?
P: It's a little bit warmer the right side than the left.
D: Okay. And does One leg appear to be shorter or does. Does it appear to be misaligned or in any sort of like strange positions, like outward turning of your leg when compared to the other?
P: I think it's a bit. I look at it. It's a bit like outward turning and then. Yeah, I would say it's more outward turns.
D: Okay. And if. Are you sitting down right now?
P: Yep.
D: Okay. Are you able to stand up from a sitting position?
P: I can try, but it's very painful.
D: Okay.
P: Yeah. Should I go ahead and try?
D: Yes, please.
P: Yeah. So I. Yeah, I can barely stand up. It's kind of just. I'm just supporting myself with my left leg.
D: Okay, so I guess you can't do any of the like hip FL h flexion or hip extension, hip abduction or adduction, Correct?
P: No, I can barely move it.
D: Okay. All right. Those are all the questions that I had. Did you have any questions of your own?
P: No, I think. I just don't know if I need surgery or something.
D: Yeah. So it sounds like you have a hip fracture from your fall. So the way to treat this is a combination of surgery, some rehab, and medication. So we'll definitely look into the surgical options first, which is done using some internal repair with screws. Or you can do a total hip replacement or a partial hip replacement. The orthopedic surgeon will decide, like, which option is best for you after we refer you for a consult with them. And then after that surgery, they'll likely refer you to some rehab. So physiotherapy will focus on improving your range of motion and strengthening the muscles in that area. And for management of pain, you can take ibuprofen or any over the counter pain medications for now. Does that sound okay?
P: Yeah, that sounds good. Thank you so much.
D: Okay, great. No problem.
