D: What brings you in?
P: Hi. I've had this pain in my left knee that's been going on now for the last three or four months that it's gotten a bit worse. It used to only really bug me while I was doing activity, and now it started to hurt even more afterwards as well. And so I'm getting the pain at rest, and so I wanted to come and get that checked out.
D: Okay. Yeah, for sure. And you said it started a few weeks ago?
P: Well, I think first started a few months ago, but in the past couple of weeks it has started to kind of like last longer and happen at rest as well.
D: Yeah. And so does anything make it worse or better? I assume doing any sort of physical activity makes it worse and rest makes it better, but how about anything other than that?
P: Not really. Yeah, it's mostly just the activity. If I'm going upstairs or kind of downstairs or during running is really where it hurts the most. And that's what's bugged me. Yeah. The most. Running.
D: Okay. Okay. And if you were to describe the quality of this pain, would you say it's sharp, dull, achy, crampy?
P: It's a sharp pain. Almost like every time my foot hits the ground, I get like a sharp stabbing pain. And while I'm at rest, it feels a bit more dull while I'm at rest.
D: Okay. Okay. And 1 to 10, 10 being the worst pain ever. How bad is this pain?
P: A six.
D: Okay. All right. And have you ever experienced this type of pain before?
P: I did have something similar, like many years ago. I used to be a rower in undergrad and I got some similar pains before. And I mean, with some stretching and other, I don't know, kind of strengthening stuff, it kind of helped. But I didn't go see anybody for it at that time because it. It kind of went away after a little while.
D: Okay. Okay. And. And you said you were. Are you still rowing?
P: No, no, the only activity that I'm doing now is. Is running.
D: Running. Okay. And from when it started to now, in the past couple of weeks, has it changed, like dramatically? Is it affecting your day to day life.
P: A little bit? Yeah. Like even now, just walking, I can, I can feel it. The. The pain's not as severe, but like, as when I'm running, but I'm starting to notice it daily.
D: Okay. All right. And are you otherwise healthy? Do you have any symptoms like fevers or chills?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Any weight loss?
P: No weight loss?
D: No. Any rashes?
P: No rashes?
D: No changes to your vision, hearing, taste or smell?
P: No changes there.
D: Okay. How about a cough, shortness of breath or wheezing?
P: Nothing like that.
D: Okay, how about chest pain, heart palpitations?
P: No, I haven't had anything like that.
D: Okay. Any changes to your bowel movements?
P: No, I haven't had any. Diarrhea or. Yeah, everything's been normal there.
D: Okay. Nausea or vomiting?
P: Nope, no.
D: How about abdominal pain?
P: No, I haven't had any abdominal pain. Nothing like that.
D: Okay. Any changes to your urine?
P: No, no, I haven't had any issues with that.
D: Okay, how about headaches?
P: No, I haven't had any headaches.
D: Okay. Any pain elsewhere on your body?
P: Nope, it's just by. Yeah, just to my knee.
D: Okay. Any numbness or tingling in the area?
P: No, I haven't had anything like that. It's just the sharp pain.
D: Okay. Have a confusion or memory loss?
P: No, I haven't had that.
D: Okay. Any muscle aches around the knee, like so, just above your knee, where your quads are or just below?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. And are you otherwise healthy? Do you have any long standing medical conditions?
P: Yeah, I'm otherwise healthy. It's nothing that I see the doctor for. I've never been diagnosed with anything.
D: Okay, how about hospitalizations or surgeries in the past?
P: Nothing like that? No, no.
D: Okay. Any medications that you're on?
P: Nope, I don't take anything. Well, no medications, but I do take a multivitamin.
D: Okay. Are you up to date with all your immunizations?
P: I am, yeah. I'll get the flu shot each year.
D: Okay. How about allergies? Do you have any?
P: No, I don't.
D: No. Okay, Any family history of musculoskeletal issues?
P: Nope, I don't think so.
D: How about heart or lung conditions?
P: I think my dad has high blood pressure and like a high cholesterol, but nobody's had a heart attack or. And no cancer.
D: Okay, how about autoimmune conditions?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: No. Okay, any. Do you do any smoking?
P: No, I've tried like smoking marijuana in the past but didn't really like it, so I've stayed away from that.
D: Okay, how about other recreational drugs?
P: No, no, I haven't used anything like that before.
D: Okay, and then where do you live right now and who do you live with?
P: So right now I just live on my own, actually. I is finishing up my master's and just live in a small apartment.
D: Okay, all right. And have you been in contact with anyone sick recently?
P: No, I don't believe so.
D: Okay, how about travel?
P: No, I've just been finishing up the Thesis and running.
D: Okay. All right. Those are all the questions I had for you. We'll move on to the physical exam component of this. So if you can take a look at both your knees, do you see any visible redness or swelling in the area?
P: No, no swelling or. Yeah, nothing visible that I can see.
D: Okay, so no bruises?
P: No bruises.
D: Okay. Do you notice any, like, muscle atrophy, any deformities or skin changes? Otherwise?
P: No. Everything looks. Looks normal.
D: Okay. And if you can just place your hand just kind of at the top of your. On top of your kneecap on both sides. Do you notice any temperature changes from your. Between your right knee to your left knee?
P: No. No temperature changes. They feel the same.
D: Okay. And then when you palpate your knee cap as well as. Yeah, just. If you can palpate just at the center of your kneecap, do you feel any pain there?
P: No pain over the kneecap. That feels fine.
D: Okay. How about when you palpate, kind of like the medial ligaments of your kneecap, do you feel any pain there?
P: No. Everything on the medial side feels. Feels normal and fine.
D: How about when you palpate the lateral ligaments of your kneecap?
P: Yeah, the ligaments feel okay. On the lateral side, though. I do get some pain along the. Above the joint line.
D: Above the joint line?
P: Yeah.
D: Okay. Okay. And how about when you palpate that big muscle group on your thighs, like the quadriceps?
P: That feels okay. No pain on the muscles.
D: Okay. How about like, the patellar tendon?
P: No pain there.
D: Okay. And then when you go lower below your kneecap, when you palpate, like, the top part, the proximal parts of your tibia and fibula, do you feel any pain there?
P: Yeah, no pain there.
D: Okay. And now let's do some movements with your leg. Are you sitting down?
P: Yep, I am.
D: Okay, I'm going to get you to stand up from a sitting position. Does that. Is that painful?
P: It is. Yeah. I get a sharp pain when doing that.
D: Okay. Yeah. How about when you sit back down? Does that hurt?
P: Yeah, that hurts, too.
D: That hurts too. Okay. And then how about when you flex your knee inwards so that your heel is touching your bum? Like, does that hurt?
P: Like, I'll get a. No, that doesn't hurt. That feels okay.
D: Okay. How about when you extend your knee back out, straighten it all the way?
P: Yeah, that feels okay, too. If I'm just sitting and doing that, I can. I can do that. Okay.
D: Okay. How about when you. So you're standing, and then you. You abduct your hip so you. Basically you flex your hip, but laterally. And you kind of bring it upwards so that it's almost. So that the action is like you're trying to touch the ceiling.
P: Okay. Yeah, it does feel. It feels like it's kind of pulling. Like, it feels tight when I do that. Like, on that side, it's. I don't get the same sharp pain, but it's uncomfortable.
D: Okay, so I'm gonna try a special test. It's called the Obra test. So can I get you to lie on the side with the injured knee?
P: Yeah.
D: Okay. And then I'm gonna get you to flex your knee at 90 degrees and abduct and extend the hip while your thighs maintain in line with your trunk. So I'm going to get you to add duck to your thigh. So bring it back towards you, the median as far as possible.
P: Oh, yeah, I can't really. It's kind of like stuck out there. It feels really tight. If I'm trying to bring it back down, my leg almost like floats up if I just leave it there.
D: Okay, so that is a positive over test. Okay. So what it sounds like is it sounds like you have something called iliotibial band syndrome, so ITB syndrome. And basically that happens in athletes. So depending on your position, like how much you're using those joints and repetitive actions of like, knee flexion, extension kind of triggers that. And to treat it, we can try some conservative things first. So the first thing would be for you to have some sort of activity modification to prevent aggravating that joint even more. So you're doing a lot of running, so maybe switching to things like swimming for the time being can help with that. And then other things include ice or heating pads, taping and stretching. And then if the pain is. If the pain persists, you can try some ibuprofen for temporary relief. We can talk about other treatments as well, like physiotherapy, because it'll be important to kind of strengthen those muscles around that joint as well as increase your range of motion. So. So we can put in a referral for that. And if none of those work, we can also discuss some other things, like ultrasound therapy or like muscle stimulation, shockwave therapy. And then eventually, if none of those other things work, we can discuss surgical management, but it's rare that it ever gets to that point. Does that sound okay?
P: It does, yeah. Thank you so much.
D: Okay. Yeah, no worries.
