D: What brings you in here today?
P: Yeah, yeah, last night. So I having this pain in my right wrist. Yeah, last night I tripped over something and I ended up, like, landing on my hand to help break the fall. And this morning I woke up, but I have some, like, bruising on my hand and it's really sore to touch it.
D: Okay, and which right. Which hand is this?
P: It's my right hand.
D: Okay, and when you had your fall, when was your fall?
P: So it was last night, probably like 10pm Something like that. I went out with a few friends for dinner and drinks.
D: Okay, and do you remember how high you fell from or what. What you fell onto?
P: Yeah, it was standing height. We were just kind of walking down the street and tripped over something on the curb. I think there was a. Yeah, maybe like a pothole or something like that. And so I felt right onto the concrete with my hand.
D: Okay, did you hit your head at all or lose consciousness?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay, so it was mainly your hand that got injured?
P: Yeah, it was just mostly my hand.
D: Okay, and are you having any pain on movement or if you press on it?
P: Yeah, I do get some pain if I'm trying to move the wrist around and it hurts to press on it as well.
D: Okay, and do you notice any kind of swelling or bruising?
P: I do. Yes. There's some swelling and bruising.
D: Okay, and if you had to describe where the swelling and bruising and the pain are, how would you describe it?
P: So I have a sharp pain right at my wrist. I feel it mostly at the base of my thumb, kind of right at the wrist, and that's where the swelling and bruising is as well.
D: Okay. And is it right under your palm or at the back of your hand on the wrist?
P: At the back of the hand, at the wrist and base of the thumb.
D: Okay. Okay. All right. And what kind of pain are you feeling? Is it sharp? Is it dull, aching?
P: Oh, yeah, it's really sharp. It feels like somebody's stabbing me in the hand.
D: Okay, and how much would you rate the pain on a scale of 0 to 10, 10 being the worst pain you've felt in your life?
P: If I'm not moving it around, it's a three, but if I move it, it goes up to, like, a nine out of ten.
D: Okay. And is it radiating or moving anywhere else onto your hand?
P: No, I don't feel it anywhere else.
D: Okay, and do you have any kind of pins and needle sensation, tingling or numbness anywhere in your hands?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Anything that makes the pain worse or Better?
P: Yeah. I tried some anti inflammatories. That did help with taking the edge off a little bit and. But the pain just came right back and then also like just moving it at all hurts. Even texting on my phone was really bugging me.
D: Okay. Yeah. So you definitely. Wait, so you had the fall yesterday or.
P: Yeah, it was yesterday.
D: Okay. Okay. All right. So when did it start hurting? Did it start hurting right away or has it gotten worse at all?
P: Yeah, it started hurting right away and it's. Well, this morning it's a bit worse. Yeah.
D: Okay, do you have any other symptoms at all, like fever, chills, headache, anything like that?
P: No.
D: Any dizziness or fainting?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any diarrhea, constipation? No. Any changes in your vision, hearing, balance?
P: Nope, nothing like that.
D: Okay. But yeah. So your main concern today is this pain in your wrist?
P: Yeah, exactly.
D: Okay. All right. And do you have any past medical conditions you've been diagnosed with?
P: Yeah, I have asthma and I. I use an orange inhaler daily and it's been well controlled. I'll use. I haven't used the blue one in a while.
D: Okay, so it's pretty well controlled.
P: Yeah.
D: And do you take any other medications at all?
P: Just a multivitamin.
D: Okay.
P: And vitamin D as well.
D: Okay. All right. And have you been hospitalized in the past or had any surgeries?
P: Yeah, I had my tonsils out and my wisdom teeth out when I was a teenager and. Or tonsils when I was a kid, actually.
D: And.
P: My son.
D: Okay. And any complications at all with that at all?
P: No, no, every. Every. That was. Okay.
D: Okay. And have you injured your right hand or broken any bones before?
P: No, I haven't.
D: Okay, so this is the first injury on your right hand. Okay. And do you have any family history of any medical conditions at all?
P: Yeah, my. My uncle died of a heart attack when he was in his 60s and I think my grandfather also had had a heart attack as well. Yeah, that's about it.
D: Okay. And in terms of your work, do you work currently?
P: Yeah, I do. I work in a restaurant and so this will be difficult for my job coming up with an injured wrist and hand. I just restarted and I'll have to be carrying a lot of different things and so I just hope it's not broken.
D: Oh, I see. Yeah, it might definitely that's. That might be concerning if, you know, we'll get that checked though, on X ray and everything, but we just need to do a few. Few more questions and some examination as well. How would you describe your living situation? Right. Now.
P: So I'm living on my own, actually, in an apartment.
D: Okay. And do you currently smoke?
P: No, I've never smoked. I couldn't with having asthma, so I just stayed away from all of that.
D: Okay. Okay. And do you drink alcohol?
P: Yeah, I do. I have a couple of bottles of wine per week.
D: Okay. All right. A couple of bottles a week. So how much would you have in an average day?
P: I guess probably like two or three glasses of wine a day.
D: Okay. Yeah. So we definitely recommend for women to limit themselves to maybe one to two max, two glasses of wine a day, as it can have health effects in the future in terms of drinking and then on your liver. Okay. And other than that, I. I just had a few questions. Any recreational drugs, like marijuana?
P: No. Stayed away from that as well.
D: Okay. Okay. So I'm just gonna ask a few questions about. Specifically to examine your wrist so you notice. So can you. Are you able to move your wrist around? Are you able to make a fist?
P: I can, but it. I can't really bend my thumb, and it. It hurts a lot, so I can bend my fingers, but my thumbs kind of out.
D: Okay. Do the joints in your thumb hurt at all?
P: No.
D: Okay. And any pain anywhere else, like on your fingers or your elbow?
P: No.
D: Okay. And what movement would you say hurts the most?
P: Probably just moving the wrist, like, flexing and extending the wrist.
D: Okay. And the swelling, you said is at the base of the thumb, right?
P: Yeah, exactly. At the base of the thumb on the back of the hand. There's some. Yeah. Bruising and swelling there.
D: Okay. Is it warm at all to touch?
P: No, it doesn't feel warm.
D: Okay. Okay. And if you press on, are you getting any bony pain in that area? Like if you press on a bone?
P: Yeah, Like, I mean, if I. There's one spot that if I press down, it. It's like 10 of the 10. Pain. It hurts really bad if I press at the base of my thumb there.
D: Okay. All right, so those are all the questions I had for you today. We definitely need to. Since you're having pain on just palpating the area, there's swelling, redness, and you did have a fall, and you landed on your. You caught yourself with your hand. There is a common fracture that can happen in those circumstances to your wrist. And so we need to do an X ray, and we will see if you have a fracture or not. But we also need to see if we need to get a cast for you or if we can manage your injury with a splint. And then based on what we see. And pure physical examination will determine how long you need to be in the caster splint, and then we'll go from there.
P: Okay, that sounds good. Thank you.
