D: 45 year old female with right knee pain. Hi, my name is Chris. I'm a medical student in the clinic today. How may I help you?
P: Hi, Chris. So I've just been having this pain in my knee since I just fell just three days ago, slipping on the stairs. Since then I've been having a lot of pain.
D: I see. So did this pain start right after, like falling on the stairs?
P: Yeah, yeah, I've been having the pain since then.
D: Okay, that was three days ago? Three days ago. Okay. And you're feeling the pain in your. In your right knee?
P: Yeah, in my right knee.
D: Okay, and what would you say the character of the pain is or how would you describe the pain?
P: It's kind of like a dull, aching pain.
D: Okay. And has the pain been getting any better or any worse?
P: It's kind of getting worse actually, just in my right knee as well as my whole right calf as well.
D: Okay. Okay. What is the intensity of the pain on a scale of 1 to 10, 10 being the worst pain you've ever felt?
P: Probably around a six.
D: Okay. And did your knee hurt before this at all or did you have any trauma to the leg before?
P: No, before three days ago, before my slip, I was fine.
D: Okay. Are you feeling the pain anywhere else besides your right knee?
P: In my calf. I'm getting a lot of pain as well in my right calf.
D: Okay. Has there been anything that's made the pain worse?
P: Yeah, if I'm walking or if I'm moving that leg and putting weight on it, it's definitely worse. So it's definitely, like, better if I just stay seated and stay resting.
D: Okay. Is there anything so you say resting that helps? Is there anything else that's helped?
P: I did take some Advil, which did help for a few hours, but then it just kind of went back to the same.
D: Okay, and have you had any other, like, associated symptoms with the right knee and calf pain?
P: Yes, I also think there's some swelling in my right calf as well since yesterday.
D: Okay. Okay. There's some swelling there. Have you noticed if your calf was red or if there was a rash over it?
P: I don't see any rashes or redness, but it definitely does seem swollen. And then it hurts as well when I move it or press it.
D: Okay. Okay. And when you fell, did you injure any other parts of your body, like your hands or wrists?
P: Just a few scratches on my hands, but nothing too bad.
D: And how about your head? Did you lose consciousness or hit your head?
P: No, no, I didn't hit my head at all. I Caught myself before then. And no, I didn't lose any consciousness.
D: Okay. Okay. Have you had any fevers or chills?
P: No.
D: Okay. Have you had any chest pain?
P: No.
D: Have you had any cough?
P: No cough.
D: Have you had any shortness of breath?
P: No.
D: Okay. Have you had any dizziness or lightheadedness?
P: No.
D: Okay. And have you had any heart palpitations or feeling like your heart is racing?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. And have you had any, like, infectious symptoms, such as, like. Like a runny nose or sore throat?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. And have you had any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Have you had any abdominal pain? No. Okay. Have you had any changes to your bowel movements, like diarrhea or constipation?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: All right, so have you had any urinary problems?
P: Nope.
D: All right, and have you had any recent weight changes?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay.
P: And.
D: Have you noticed any rashes anywhere else over your body?
P: No, not that I've noticed.
D: All right. Have you noticed any muscle weakness?
P: No.
D: Have you had any numbness to the skin?
P: Not that I've noted. No.
D: And have you had any tingling?
P: No.
D: Okay. And in the past, have you been diagnosed with any medical conditions?
P: I do have some high cholesterol and high blood pressure.
D: I see. And do you take any medications?
P: Yeah. So cholesterol, I'm taking, like, a Crestor medication. And then for high blood pressure, I'm taking Ramapril.
D: Okay. Have you had any hospitalizations or surgeries before?
P: I just. No, I don't just. Besides a C section for one of my children, I don't have any other surgeries.
D: Okay.
P: And.
D: Have you had any thrombosis before or a blood clot in the past?
P: No, I've never had anything like that.
D: Okay. And have you been. So you've had the birth of your. You had a C section, and have you been pregnant other times in the past? No. That was.
P: That was it.
D: Okay, so have you had a miscarriage before?
P: Nope.
D: Okay. Any allergies to medications?
P: No allergies.
D: Okay. And could you tell me a little bit about your living situation currently, like who you're living with and whereabouts you're living?
P: Yeah, I live with my husband and our daughter, and it's just in a small townhouse just in the city.
D: Okay. And are you working currently?
P: I do work from home, actually. Just an accounting clerk, but most of my work is from home right now.
D: Okay. And any exposures to anybody who's been sick?
P: No.
D: Have you traveled anywhere recently?
P: No.
D: Okay. And over the last couple of days, With a leg pain, do you feel as though you've been, like, immobilized?
P: Yeah, I've been trying to just, like, stay rested, just stay seated. Otherwise, it hurts a lot, especially after my fall. So I've tried to stay immobilized.
D: Okay. For the last couple of days. Okay. And do you drink alcohol?
P: Just socially sometimes when I'm with friends or relatives. Like a glass of wine.
D: Okay. And do you use recreational drugs, like marijuana or. Or other things such as, like, cocaine?
P: No, I've never tried that.
D: Okay. And do you smoke cigarettes?
P: No, I don't.
D: Okay. Okay.
P: So.
D: Oh, and in the family, are there any history of heart or lung conditions?
P: So I don't know about heart or lung conditions, but my mother had a stroke in her late 60s. My father is pretty healthy.
D: Okay. Has there been any, like, blood clots in the family before?
P: Not sure about blood clots, but my mother had a stroke. That's. Is that kind of like a blood clot?
D: It could be. Stroke can have many different type of types of causes for it, and one of them could be caused by a blood clot, but I wouldn't be able to say for sure just because. Yeah. There are so many different types or reasons for having a stroke.
P: I see.
D: Okay. So. Yeah. So you mentioned your leg has some swelling. Do you feel as though there's any, like, temperature change to your calf? Like, is it hot?
P: I think. I don't know if it's maybe a little bit warm, but definitely swollen.
D: Okay. And do you feel. Is there any pain to palpation? Like, if you touch your calf or something like that, is there pain?
P: Yeah, if I touch my right calf, it's painful, and then if I press down on it, it's really painful. And then just on the outside of my right knee, if I touch or press down, it really hurts as well.
D: Okay. And if you move your foot. So if you dorsiflex your ankle or bending your toe up towards your nose, do you end up getting any calf pain? Doing the Hohmann test?
P: Yeah, I'll try that. Yeah, I think it definitely hurts when I move my. Or point my toes towards my nose.
D: Okay. Okay. So I think that was everything that I wanted to ask today on History. Was there anything else that maybe I missed?
P: No, I think that's all.
D: Okay. All right, so with the fall two days ago, things that I'm thinking about right now would be possibly a muscle strain. So this could be a gastrocnemius strain to the calf muscle itself from. From the fall, which could have pain when you touch it. There could be some swelling and would be aggravated by movements. Also could be like, injuries to some of the ligaments there as well. However, with the swelling, the immobilization for the last two days, as well as the pain kind of being a bit progressive with swelling and a positive Hohmann test, and your temperature is a little bit elevated today, not quite a fever, but feverish. It does increase the suspicion for a deep vein thrombosis. And so I think the most likely thing right now is actually a DVT or deep vein thrombosis. And so we will order some diagnostic studies and get an ultrasound of your right calf. Okay. As well as an X ray of the right knee to start. Okay.
P: Okay. Sounds good. Thank you so much.
