D: How may I help you?
P: I just came in here today. I've been having a lot of shoulder pain that's just kind of left me not doing any of my activities recently, just in my left shoulder.
D: Okay, and when did this pain start?
P: It started five days ago, but it became pretty bad. And I've been kind of having like, a somewhat of a pain for the last couple weeks, but it got really bad just this week.
D: Okay, did you have any trauma to the shoulder, like, any injuries or triggers that could have caused the pain?
P: I have been just going to the gym more frequently over the last few months, lifting weights and things like that, but just this week, I wasn't even really able to do that either.
D: Okay, when you were lifting weights, like, a few days ago, was there an episode where there was an acute onset of the pain that it got worse kind of right away?
P: I think it was more progressive. But five days ago, I do feel that there was, like, just. I was having some pain before that, but then I just noticed while working out, I started having more pain. But, yeah, I don't think there was anything, like, sudden that happened, though.
D: Okay. But yeah, it was progressing, and then it got acutely worse with the weightlifting. It sounds like maybe, like, I did.
P: Increase my weight, like, in the last two weeks. So I did feel, like, a little bit more pain with the increase last week.
D: Okay, I see. And in the left shoulder, do you feel the pain at the front, at the sides or back?
P: It hurts particularly, like, in the front part of the shoulder.
D: Okay. Do you feel that it's radiating anywhere else?
P: Just my whole left shoulder. Nothing else, really.
D: Okay. And could you describe the character or the quality of the pain? Is it sharp or is it achy?
P: It's more achy.
D: Okay.
P: But certain, like, some movements it can get, like, kind of sharp.
D: Okay. And has there been anything that has made the pain worse?
P: If I just. If I carry anything with my left arm or if I have to lift anything or place it on my shoulder, like, it really hurts.
D: Okay. And have you done anything that's made it better?
P: Just like resting it, not carrying anything, and trying not to lie on my shoulder.
D: Okay, so you're sleeping on the other on the right side, then? Yeah. Okay, and how would. What would you say the severity of the pain is on a scale of 1 to 10?
P: If I'm not doing it, doing anything, or not doing much, it's probably like a two or three. But if I try to carry anything, it goes up to, like, probably like a seven.
D: Okay, and do you do Any repetitive kind of, like, overhead activities, Things like playing basketball or just lifting things above your head at the gym?
P: Not recently. Just like, normal weight exercises, maybe with the bands? I do some overhead exercises, but in terms of sports, I play or I used to play a lot of tennis. I did have some issues with the same shoulder, which is why I kind of stopped playing tennis. My doctor said I might have overused that shoulder, but that was, like, a couple years back, so I thought it must have healed by now.
D: Okay, so previous overuse injury of the left shoulder. Okay, and have you had any trauma to the shoulder?
P: No, not that I know of.
D: Okay, have you had any fevers or chills?
P: No.
D: Have you had any night sweats?
P: No.
D: Okay, have you had any skin rashes or skin changes?
P: No.
D: Okay, so even over the area, you haven't noticed any redness or, like, soft tissue swelling?
P: No.
D: Okay. Have you had any chest pain?
P: Nope.
D: Okay, how about any shortness of breath?
P: No, not that I've noticed.
D: Okay, have you had pains in any other joints?
P: No, just my shoulder.
D: Okay, and have you had any recent infections or symptoms such as, like, a runny nose or sore throat or even a cough?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay, and how about any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Okay, and how has your sleep been the past couple of nights? So you mentioned you haven't been able to lay on your left side.
P: Yeah, it's been pretty painful. Like, I kind of wake up every time I accidentally go onto my left side.
D: Okay, sorry. You're getting worsening of pain at night. Okay, have you had any weakness? Do you feel like you have less strength in your arm?
P: I do feel that there might be some less strength in my left arm, but I'm not really using it much, so it's hard to tell.
D: Okay, and how about range of motion? Do you feel as though you could lift your left arm up to, like, scratch your head and back?
P: It does hurt, like when I try to lift my arm up.
D: Okay, so it sounds like range of motion is decreased. Okay, and have you had any altered sensation of your arms being, like, numbness or tingling?
P: No, I haven't felt any of that.
D: Okay, and have you had any changes to your bowel habits, like constipation or diarrhea?
P: Nope, nothing like that.
D: Had any abdominal pain?
P: Nope.
D: And have you had any urinary problems?
P: No.
D: Okay, and in the past, have you been diagnosed with any medical conditions?
P: No, I've been pretty healthy, actually. Just. Just that overuse injury, like, two years ago.
D: Okay, great. And do you have any allergies to medications?
P: No.
D: Okay. Do you take any medications regularly?
P: Just recently I've been taking a lot more of the Advil, but that's about it.
D: Okay, and have you had any hospitalizations or prior surgeries?
P: No, no prior surgeries or hospitalizations.
D: Okay. Can you tell me a little about your living situation currently, like who you're living with and whereabouts?
P: Yeah, so I'm living with my wife in a small condominium in downtown.
D: Okay. And are you working currently?
P: Yeah, I'm working as a real estate agent.
D: Okay. And do you drink alcohol?
P: Rarely. Just on some occasions, but not regularly? No.
D: Okay. How about smoking cigarettes or cannabis?
P: No, I've never smoked.
D: Do you use any recreational drugs or have you in the past?
P: Nope.
D: Okay, and so the next part, just for a physical exam, you have pain with shoulder abduction?
P: Yes. So just. Yeah, I do have some pain, especially from. Yeah, yeah. Pain throughout abduction.
D: Okay. Is there any, like, pain that's, like parts of that. That range of motion that are more painful for you?
P: Yeah, so probably from 60 degrees to 120 degrees is more painful.
D: Okay. And if your arm is outstretched and your thumb pointing down, so your arm is internally rotated, does that give you pain?
P: Yeah, if. Yeah, not just like that, but if you were to, like, press down on it, it. The internal rotation does cause a little bit of pain.
D: Okay. Okay, so it sounds like a positive job's test and a positive NIRS test, as well as a painful arc for your shoulder. And is there pain to palpation?
P: Just. Yeah, definitely just at the front of the shoulder. There is some pain over with palpation.
D: Okay. And sensation is normal, reflexes are normal, and strength is slightly red reduced as well. Okay, so that was everything that I wanted to ask on history and check. Ask about on the physical exam as well. Was there anything else that you wanted to mention today that I maybe forgot?
P: No, I think that's it.
D: Okay, so based on the symptoms today, along with your age and prior history of an overuse injury of the left shoulder, it certainly raises concern of having a rotator cuff tear or a rotator cuff impingement syndrome, where there is inflammation there and not necessarily actually a full tear of the muscle that's causing the pain. So those would be the two most likely things, either rotator cuff tear or subacromial impingement syndrome. And so we want to get an ultrasound of the left shoulder to evaluate the structures and possibly some other imaging, such as an X ray or MRI to determine the extent of the injury in the left shoulder.
P: Okay, sounds good. Thank you.
