D: How may I help you?
P: I was coming into the clinic today. My parents told me to come today. I've been noticing this just mass right below or kind of like a lump and mass below my right knee. And it's not painful or anything. It's a little bit uncomfortable, but I just want to check out and see what it might be.
D: Yeah, certainly. Okay. When. When did you first notice this mask?
P: So I think I noticed it for the first time probably a couple weeks ago. I would say, like two weeks ago, I noticed it.
D: Okay, and where specifically is it located?
P: So it's below my knee. Right on. Like, I feel it on the big bone right below the knee. Yeah, it just feels like a hard lump.
D: Okay. Okay. And is it. Is it associated with any pain?
P: No, it's not really that painful. It's. If I press on, it's a little bit uncomfortable, but it's not like I wouldn't call it pain.
D: Okay, and have you had any trauma to the. To the knee or area or any injuries there?
P: No, not that I can remember. I don't think I've had any injuries there. And this lump is, like, probably like 2-3 cm. It's. I don't even know, like, when it appeared or why it appeared. I haven't really injured myself or anything.
D: Okay, and have you had any fevers or chills?
P: No.
D: Okay. Have you had any unexpected weight loss?
P: No, not that I can remember.
D: Okay, and how about any neurological symptoms like numbness, tingling, sensory loss?
P: No, I haven't felt any of those.
D: Okay, and how about any muscle weakness in the lower extremity or upper extremity?
P: No, no weakness.
D: Okay, have you had any, like, fevers or chills?
P: No.
D: How about night sweats?
P: No night sweats.
D: Okay, and have you had any infectious symptoms like a runny nose or a sore throat?
P: No.
D: Okay. Have you had a cough or shortness of breath?
P: No, I've been pretty well recently.
D: Okay, that's good. And how about any memory loss or confusion?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay, and any sensory changes, like changes to your vision, hearing, smell, or taste?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Have you had any chest pain?
P: No.
D: How about any heart palpitations or feeling like your heart's racing?
P: No.
D: Okay. Have you had any lightheadedness or dizziness?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay, and have you had any nausea or vomiting?
P: No, no nausea or vomiting.
D: Okay. Have you had any changes or loss to appetite?
P: No.
D: How about any abdominal pain?
P: No, no abdominal pain.
D: All right. Have you had any changes to your bowel habits, like diarrhea constipation, or blood in the stool?
P: No.
D: Okay, and how about any changes to your urinary patterns, like pain or frequency?
P: No, no changes at all.
D: Okay, have you had any changes to your skin, like, such as rashes or any changes to your hair or nails?
P: No, not anything that I've noticed.
D: All right, so then how about your energy? Have you had any fatigue?
P: No, my energy has been fine.
D: Okay, and have you had any muscle aches or body pains or any joint pains?
P: No, I mean, like, all the other joints and other bones and muscles have been fine. It's just even I wouldn't describe this as pain. It's just I think my parents got a bit concerned since there was, like, a lump. They were scared. I was a little bit scared, too, so I just came in to check it out.
D: Yeah, certainly. Okay, and have you had. Have you been diagnosed with any medical conditions in the past or see a doctor for any reason?
P: No, I've been pretty healthy up until now.
D: Okay, and do you take any medications regularly, over the counter or prescribed?
P: No, no medications.
D: Okay, and do you have any allergies?
P: No.
D: All right, are your immunizations up to date?
P: Yeah, all my immunizations up to date.
D: Okay. And have you had any hospitalizations or surgeries?
P: No, I haven't had any hospitalizations or surgeries.
D: Okay, and can you tell me a little bit about your living situation currently, like who you're living with and where?
P: Yeah, so I'm living with my parents and older brother, and we live in just a house right outside of the city.
D: Okay, and are you currently in school and working or working? No, I don't work.
P: I'm currently in school right now, so. Yeah. Too busy with school and then just extracurricular activities?
D: Yeah, absolutely. Okay. And have you been around anybody who's been sick?
P: No.
D: Okay. And have you traveled anywhere recently?
P: Oh, we've all just been at home.
D: Okay.
P: And.
D: Do you smoke cigarettes or use any cannabis products?
P: No, I haven't tried any drugs or anything like that.
D: Okay, now that's good. And are you currently sexually active?
P: No. No.
D: Okay. Have you been sexually active in the past?
P: No, I haven't.
D: Okay. And any concerns for safety at home with either physical violence or verbal abuse, either to yourself or anybody in the home?
P: No. Like, me and my brother feel safe at home. School is going well, too. I'm pretty. Pretty athletic at school. I have good friends, so no bullying or anything like that. Feels pretty safe overall.
D: Okay, that's good. I'm happy to hear that. And is there Any conditions in the. In the family either, like musculoskeletal or neurological things that you can think of?
P: I don't think anything related to this, but I know my dad has diabetes and my mom has anxiety.
D: Okay. And anybody in the family ever have any cancers or. Or any bone tumors or soft tissue tumors or growths?
P: I don't think anyone's had, like, a bone tumor or anything like that. I. I know my uncle. He does have. He had, like, melanoma, which he had to get surgically removed.
D: Okay. And any genetic diseases in the family or congenital diseases?
P: Not that I've been told, no.
D: Okay, so next, I just wanted to move on to the physical exam component. And firstly, are you having any issues with walking?
P: No, I've been like, no. No pain? No. I can walk just fine. No issues there.
D: Okay, excellent. So no antalgic gait. And when looking at the area, are you seeing any swelling or redness or skin discoloration?
P: No, no, nothing like that. It's just I can tell there's, like, a lump there, and if I press it, I can feel like, a hard lump, but no changes in the skin above it.
D: Okay. And are you seeing any muscle atrophy around the area?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. And are you seeing any, like, joint deformities or. Or anything like that?
P: No, not that I can tell.
D: Okay. And you don't have any pain, so if you press on the area or on the knee joint, you can just feel the mass and no pain there?
P: Yeah, it just feels weird. I'm not in any pain or anything, but it's like. It's weird to look at and then weird to feel there as well.
D: Okay.
P: And.
D: Okay. And then no limitations with a. With, like, range of motion of any of your joints, including, like, hip, knee, and ankle.
P: Yeah, I know. I can move everything just fine.
D: Okay, awesome. And so that was everything that I wanted to ask today and check on the physical as well. So was there anything else that I maybe forgot to ask about or anything you wanted to add?
P: Yeah, no, nothing else I want to add, but I think my parents and I were just scared about it being, like, a cancer or, like a tumor. So I just don't know what I should do if I need to get any tests done or X rays or anything like that.
D: Okay. Yeah. So the first thing, we will want to get an X ray of the knee and also of the long bones, so of your femur as well as your leg, too. And because right now the most likely thing is called something an osteochondroma which is the most common primary benign bone tumor. However, there are other things that it. It could be, and. And so such as, like an osteoma or an endochondroma. So we will want to get that X ray and kind of go from there.
P: Okay. Yeah, that sounds good.
D: All right, so we'll get that ordered.
P: All right, perfect. Thank you so much.
