D: What brings you in here today?
P: I just had. Well, it was just a. Came from football practice because I.
D: Just.
P: Felt like somebody fell on me while, like, while I was on the ground. And it's like I've had this shoulder pain immediately afterwards, and I can see a, like, lump kind of pointing out, like, in my skin here on my clavicle or shoulder bone.
D: Okay. Is the right side or the left side?
P: It's the right side.
D: The right side. Okay. Okay. And how long ago did this happen?
P: It happened about. Just a couple of hours ago. Yeah, just about two hours ago.
D: Okay. And someone. Someone fell onto your side? Okay, so. So you're main. Are you having mainly pain in that. That area or is it going to other places?
P: It's mostly just the pain, like. Yeah, right in that area. I'm not feeling it anywhere else.
D: Okay, and what kind of pain are you feeling? Is it sharp, stabbing, or is it aching?
P: It's really sharp. It feels like I'm getting stabbed in the shoulder.
D: Okay, I see. On a scale of 0 to 10, 10 being the worst pain you've felt in your life, how much would you rate it?
P: This is like a 10. It hurts really bad.
D: Okay. And are you able to do any movements or are you just kind of holding your arm up with your other. Other arm?
P: Oh, yeah, I've just been holding my arm up. I kind of made a sling out of. Yeah, like, the coaches helped make a sling out of one of the. What we like a shirt or something like that at the practice. And so I've been just kind of holding my arm against my chest with my elbow flexed. I haven't really moved it at all.
D: I see. Okay. And if you were to describe just what it looks like right now, does your shoulder kind of seem like it's sagging?
P: Yeah, it does.
D: Okay. And do you notice any point near your shoulder, like, clavicle area that has any bruising, swelling looks like red. Anything like that?
P: Maybe a little bit of bruising and swelling, like, over the area where I can see, like, my skin pointing up. But yeah, that's your only area.
D: Okay, I see. Okay. Any other symptoms, like, any pain in other joints, muscles?
P: No, just the pain right there.
D: Okay. All right. And that. Have you previously had any fractures before?
P: No, I haven't.
D: Okay. And no other trauma or anything in the same region?
P: No, I haven't had any pains there before or anything like that.
D: Okay, I see. Okay. And have you been diagnosed with any medical conditions in the past?
P: No, I haven't.
D: Okay. And did you hurt yourself Anywhere else. Like, did you hurt your head at all, suffer any loss of consciousness or anything like that?
P: No, no, I didn't. I was kind of just, like, laying on my side and they fell, like, on my left shoulder, and I just got squished.
D: Okay, and did it have any impact on your chest? Like, do you feel short of breath or anything like that?
P: No, shortness of breath kind of knocked the wind out at me at first, but I'm okay now.
D: Okay, I see. That's good. Okay. And other than that, so no medical conditions, do you take any medications at all?
P: Yeah, I'll take, like, just some allergy medication every once in a while when it's like, just seasonal allergies, I think, to. Just some environmental triggers is all.
D: Okay, and do you have any allergies to any medications at all?
P: No, I don't believe so.
D: Okay. Anything that you've tried that has helped or major pain worse?
P: No, I haven't. I haven't taken anything yet. I just, like, basically came right from practice to the. To the hospital.
D: Okay, have you had any kind of fevers or chills?
P: No.
D: Any skin changes, like rashes?
P: No, I haven't had any rashes.
D: Okay, Any weakness in your upper or lower extremities besides, like, the area that's affected?
P: No, no.
D: Okay. Any dizziness, fainting episodes?
P: Nope, nothing like that.
D: Okay. And your hearing and vision is all right right now?
P: It is, yeah. I haven't had any problems with that.
D: Okay. And have you had any kind of concussions or anything in the past?
P: No, I. I haven't had any.
D: Okay. All right. Have you been hospitalized or had any surgeries in the past?
P: No, not never.
D: Okay. Any family history of any medical conditions?
P: No, no, nothing that I can think of. Everybody's pretty healthy.
D: Okay. And what's your living situation like right now?
P: So I live with both of my parents, and I have a younger brother and a younger sister as well. We live in a. In a house.
D: Okay. All right. And do you work currently or are you a student?
P: Yeah, I go. I'm in high school and I work part time at the grocery store as well. But not that often, though, because I've just been playing sports on the football team. We have a lot of practices and games and stuff.
D: Okay. Do you drink alcohol?
P: Yeah, sometimes with friends. You've had a couple of years here and there, but I mean, it's not something that I've done very often. Yeah, we've been pretty safe, I feel like.
D: Okay. And do you smoke cigarettes or in marijuana or use Any recreational drugs?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. All right, so those were all the questions I had for you today. We'll do a full physical examination of the area. We will definitely get an X ray of the shoulder and clavicle to see what kind of. It seems like you have a clavicular fracture from just the mechanism of the ear injury as well as everything you were describing. But it is important to understand how, like, what kind of clavicle injury it is and where it's affected. If it's in the middle area on, like, the outer areas of the clavicle and how much it's displaced, because that will determine if we just need to reduce it here and then give you a sling and you can go home. That's usually the case, but sometimes you may require surgery as well, and we would need to refer you to an orthopedic surgeon. So, yeah, we'll get the X ray done, and if you need anything for pain currently, we will give you some medications here, and then we'll go from there.
P: All right. Thank you.
D: You're welcome. I'll be here with you shortly.
P: That sounds good. Thank you so much.
