D: What can I do for you?
P: So I've been just over the last week, been feeling pretty sick. I have this pretty bad headache that started like probably a week ago. And then for the last few days I've been having these chills and I didn't get a chance to measure my temperature at all. But the worst thing has been just these muscle aches all over my body. And that's been going on for the last three to four days.
D: Sorry to hear that you're feeling so horrible or the past week. Let's try to understand this a little bit better. So you've had this headache for the past week or so. Where exactly is it?
P: It's kind of just all across my forehead. It can go into the sides, like into my temples as well.
D: Okay. And what does it feel like? How would you describe it?
P: Yeah, it feels like kind of like a aching. I have had headaches with throbbing before, but it's not so much throbbing. It's more just constant aching pain.
D: If you had to give it a number from 1 to 10, with 10 being the worst pain ever, what number would you give it?
P: Probably like a seven.
D: Oh, wow. Yeah, that sounds severe. How long have. How long has it been a seven for?
P: It's actually a bit better now, but when it's like over the last week it's been a seven. I would say now it's probably around a five.
D: Okay. Anything that makes the headache better.
P: I take Tylenol and it gets relieved for a bit like a few hours and then comes back.
D: Anything that you feel makes the headaches worse? Any postures or positions or activity or any kind of exposure to light or sounds?
P: No, it's just kind of there. Nothing makes it worse.
D: Do you have nausea or vomiting?
P: No. No nausea or vomiting?
D: No. Any sense of sensitivity to light or sounds?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. And is it only. Is it only in one on one side of your head or forehead, or is it on both sides?
P: It seems like it's on both sides.
D: Okay. And have you noticed any visual changes, any blurry vision with the headaches? Any other visual changes? No. Okay. And you've also had chills, but you said you haven't checked your temperature, right?
P: No, I haven't. I've been having chills for the last few nights.
D: Yeah, we can definitely check your temperature here in the hot here. And you mentioned that the muscle aches have been quite bothersome for you. Is it all over your body or anyone by any one muscle group?
P: It seems like it's all over.
D: Okay. Okay. And I'LL ask you about a couple other symptoms just to rule out any other issues that you might be having. So have you noticed that you've been confused at all over the past few days?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: Have you had any, like, stiffness or rigidity in your neck?
P: Maybe a little bit of a stiffness in my neck, then, like. I don't know if that's just the muscle pain. It's like kind of my upper back, lower neck area.
D: We can definitely examine that when I'm doing a physical exam and see how that is. Okay. And have you had any sort of redness in your eyes or any teary eyes?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Does the headache come and go or is it always there?
P: They're pretty much, like, constant throughout the day.
D: All right. And do you have a runny nose or a stuffy nose?
P: No, no, I don't. I think I kind of am developing a little cough, though.
D: Okay. When did that start?
P: Probably just yesterday. I noticed myself coughing.
D: Is it like a dry cough or a wet cough?
P: A dry cough.
D: Knee, sputum or. Any blood coming up?
P: No.
D: Any sore throat?
P: No.
D: Any chest pain?
P: No.
D: Any difficulties of breathing?
P: No.
D: Any palpitations or feel like your heart's beating very fast?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any belly pain?
P: No.
D: Any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Any diarrhea or constipation?
P: No, not that I've noticed.
D: Any weakness in any one side of your body?
P: Nope.
D: Any numbness or tingling?
P: Nope.
D: No. Okay. Any exposures to anyone who could be sick?
P: I haven't noticed, but I do go to work. We recently switched to, like, in person instead of. I used to do homework, but for the last month I've been going into the office.
D: I see. And have you been wearing a mask?
P: Yeah, I try to wear the mask sometimes, like in the. In the staff, like, lounge. We, like, take off the mask to eat and stuff, but that's about it.
D: Are you maintaining social distancing when you're taking your mask off?
P: Yeah, it's most of the times we're pretty socially distanced when we're eating, but sometimes it's, like, hard to control when, you know, when you're going in the microwave to heat up your food, and sometimes it gets hard. It's a fairly small room, so.
D: Yeah. Well, I would recommend that you try to eat when people are not in the room, if possible because you are putting yourself at risk if it's a small room. I think you should also talk to management to try to limit the number of people who can be in the room at a time, for your own safety, you know, and for the safety of others working with you. Okay. And have you traveled anywhere recently?
P: No, we've been at home.
D: Okay, good. And who do you live with?
P: I live with my young, like a daughter and then my wife as well.
D: Okay. Any. Do you think they might have had any contacts to anyone who's sick?
P: No, they've been completely fine. My daughter, like, is doing school from home right now, so she's not really seeing anyone.
D: Okay, that's good. And do you currently smoke?
P: I do. I do smoke. Probably half a pack a day.
D: For how long?
P: For probably the last 20 years.
D: Okay. And do you consume marijuana?
P: Just maybe once or twice a month. Just sometimes. It helps me sleep sometimes.
D: Sure. Do you take any recreational drugs like cocaine, amphetamine, LSD, ecstasy, etc.
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Any alcohol?
P: Yeah, I drink probably a beer or two every couple days.
D: All right. And do you have any medical conditions that you've been diagnosed with?
P: Yes, I do. They're saying I might have a high blood pressure. They, like, it's still ongoing. They're testing. Testing me for things.
D: Sure, yeah. And have you taken any medications for it?
P: No, not yet. I haven't been put on any medications.
D: Have you. Do you take anything over the counter? Any herbal pills, vitamins, minerals, etc.
P: No.
D: Okay. And do you have any allergies? No, including. Okay, good. And have you had any surgeries in the past or any hospitalizations?
P: I was pretty young. I had my tonsils removed, but other than that, no other surgeries for hospitalizations.
D: Good. Any family history of any medical conditions?
P: So I think my mother, she has type 2 diabetes.
D: Okay.
P: And my father has been pretty healthy. Like, no issues with him.
D: Good. Okay. Have you had any. Have you had migraines in the past?
P: Yeah, sometimes when I'm, like, stressed at work. And, like, it's not like, anything regular that's happened to me. I probably have had migraines in the past.
D: Okay. Okay. And have you ever been diagnosed with asthma or with copd?
P: No.
D: Okay. All right. So it sounds like you've had a headache for the past week, which has been kind of constant, about 7 out of 10. And then you've also developed a fever, but you haven't. Or I guess you've been feeling. You've been having chills, and we can measure your temperature here. And you also had a cough that started yesterday. What about sense of taste? Have you noticed any changes there?
P: No, not that I've really noticed.
D: What about your sense of smell.
P: My smell? I don't think so. But like, sometimes I do feel a bit, like, stuffy as well. Like not. Not right now, but before, when I felt stuffy, I lost my sense of smell.
D: Sure. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Well, that's all the questions I have for you. We'll do a physical exam, get a chest X ray done, also examine your neck as well, a little bit, just to make sure there's no stiffness or rigidity. Have a look inside your mouth, listen to your chest. Okay. We will also get a Covid swab done simply because our symptoms sound very similar to, or I guess a lot of these symptoms do overlap with symptoms of COVID So we'll do that. And I would request that you continue to stay at home if you haven't been done doing so so far. Take a leap from work, or try to do work from home and quarantine at home as much as possible. And stay away from your wife and your daughter as well. At least until the swab is back and you get some more guidance from Public Health. If it is positive that, we'll give you a call. There are lots of guidelines on how to self isolate and I can share that with you. So it's best that you do that before now. We will run a couple of tests, do labs, and based on those results, we'll decide if you need to stay in the ER or if you can be discharged later today. Do you have any questions for me?
P: No, that all sounds great. Thanks for explaining it to me.
D: You're welcome. Okay.
