D: What brings you in?
P: Yeah, so I've had this chest tightness and been short of breath and bringing up sputum with this cough.
D: Okay, so let's start with the cough. When did that start?
P: So I've had a cough now for a few years, but over this past three days, it's gotten quite a bit worse.
D: Okay. For the past three days. Pre. Three years. Okay.
P: Yeah.
D: Are there any triggers for your cough?
P: Yeah, if I'm doing, like, if I'm really active, like, if I run to catch the bus or. Or if I'm shoveling snow, maybe I can become short of breath, but not if I'm just walking around the block or anything like that.
D: Okay. And what caused this cough initially three years ago? Do you know?
P: Yeah, I think. I think it's just a smoker's cough. I think that my family doctor told me I had, like, chronic bronchitis before.
D: Okay. Okay. How often were you coughing before it got worse recently?
P: I would usually cough every day, but the cough would be usually just in the morning. I'd get up, I would cough up some sputum, and. And then maybe it'll usually be okay.
D: Okay. And does anything make your cough better? Like, do you take any over the counter cough syrup?
P: Yeah, I've tried some over the counter cough syrups in the past, but it hasn't helped.
D: Okay. Okay. And if you were to talk about the quality of your cough, is it. Is it barky? Does it sound harsh? What does it sound like?
P: Yeah, I would say it sounds pretty harsh. You can kind of. It sounds like there's mucus moving around. I guess with the cough in my chest, I can kind of feel it.
D: Okay. Okay. And you mentioned that you're producing a lot of sputum with your cough. What color is that sputum?
P: Greenish green.
D: Okay. Any blood?
P: No blood.
D: No blood. Okay. And you mentioned you've never produced sputum with the cough, especially not green sputum in the past three years. Right.
P: I would bring up sputum, but it's usually clear and white.
D: Okay. Okay. And do you have any wheeziness associated with this cough?
P: Yes, I do.
D: Yes. Okay. And you mentioned you were short of breath. Were you short of breath prior to your cough, or did that start when this cough got worse?
P: I think the shortness of breath has gotten a bit worse over the last few days as the cough has gotten worse.
D: Okay. Okay. And if you were to rate the severity of your symptoms of how you're feeling, 1 to 10, 10 being the worst, where would you put yourself at.
P: I would say, an 8. It's been really tough. It's been getting really difficult to breathe.
D: Okay. Yeah. And have you ever experienced anything to this severity in the past?
P: No, I haven't had this difficulty breathing before.
D: Okay. Okay. Do you have any chest pain?
P: My chest is. It feels tight.
D: Okay. It feels tight. Okay. Does that. Does it hurt though?
P: No, no, it doesn't really hurt. It's just uncomfortable.
D: Okay. And do you think it's tight because of the coughing or the shortness of breath?
P: Yeah, kind of feel it with the coughing.
D: Okay. And have you noticed any swelling in your limbs?
P: Yeah, maybe a little bit in my. In my feet, more than usual.
D: Okay. And do you feel like your heart's racing?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. Any dizziness or fainting spells?
P: I haven't had anything like that.
D: Okay. Any changes to your vision or hearing?
P: No, no.
D: Do you have a stuffy nose or a runny nose?
P: No.
D: How about a sore throat?
P: No.
D: No. Any changes to your smell or taste?
P: No.
D: Any fevers or chills?
P: No, I felt okay.
D: Okay. Any weight loss?
P: Yeah, maybe. I mean, over the last few years. I've lost a few pounds, but maybe. Maybe £10 over the last couple of years.
D: Last couple of years. Okay. Was it intentional weight loss or unintentional?
P: Unintentional.
D: Okay. All right. And any changes to your hair, nails or skin, like rashes?
P: No, I haven't noticed anything like that.
D: Okay. And how are your bowel movements? Everything normal there?
P: Yep, that's been normal.
D: Okay. Everything normal with regards to your urine?
P: Yeah, that's been normal.
D: Okay. Any confusion or memory loss?
P: No, no.
D: Okay. Any fatigue?
P: Yeah, I've been feeling, well, really tired these last three days.
D: Yeah. Okay. Any joint pains or muscle aches? No, no. Okay. And are you otherwise healthy?
P: Well, I use these inhalers and I think I've been told I have COPD before.
D: Okay, other than your copd, do you have any other long standing medical conditions like high blood pressure, diabetes, anything like that?
P: Yeah, I have high blood pressure and I had my gallbladder taken out a few years ago.
D: Okay. Okay. Any other surgeries or hospitalizations?
P: I had an ACL repair like when I was a teenager.
D: Okay. And besides the inhalers, are you on any other medication?
P: Yeah, there's one for blood pressure and I take vitamin D and that's it.
D: Okay, which one? Which medication are you on for the blood pressure?
P: Amlodipine.
D: Amlodipine. Okay. When did you start taking that?
P: About seven years ago.
D: Okay. And then for your COPD which inhalers are you on?
P: There's one that's for, like, short acting, and then there's one that I use every day, Spiriva, I think.
D: Okay. Yeah. And how long have you been on these inhalers?
P: It's been a couple of years for. Well, for the short one that I use for rescue therapy has been for, like, a long time, but Spiriva has been the last several years.
D: Okay. Okay. And do you find that your inhalers are helping?
P: Yeah, I definitely notice a difference when I. If I miss a dose or something, yeah.
D: Okay. And do you have any allergies?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: No. Okay, how about immunizations? Are you up to date?
P: Yeah, I believe so.
D: Okay. And in terms of family history, are there any lung conditions or heart conditions that run in the family?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. Do you currently smoke?
P: I do, yes. I've been trying to quit. I smoke about a pack of cigarettes per day now. I used to smoke like two packs per day.
D: Okay, well, it's good that you've cut down. If you need any additional help cutting down, we resources that we can refer you to.
P: Yeah, that would be great.
D: Yeah. How much? For how long have you been smoking? Like, how many years?
P: Well, I started when I was a teenager, so probably like, I don't know, 35.
D: Okay. And do you do any marijuana?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. Okay. And how about alcohol? Do you drink alcohol?
P: Yeah, a few beers on the weekend.
D: Okay. And then where do you live? Currently.
P: Live in an apartment by myself.
D: Okay. And any reasons to think that there are any old carpet mold or asbestos or anything like that that could be exacerbating your symptoms?
P: Well, I mean, you have a carpet in the bedroom, so. But, I mean, that's the only carpet in the apartment.
D: Okay. And do you live with anyone?
P: No, it's just me and my dog.
D: Okay. Have you been around any sick contacts recently?
P: Maybe. I mean, I usually will see a couple of friends, will meet up to grab some coffee in the. In the morning, but I feel like all they have been. Okay.
D: Yeah. Okay. How about travel? Have you traveled anywhere recently?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. Okay. Well, I think those were all the questions that I had for you. Did you have any questions or concerns or anything that I missed that you wanted to discuss?
P: No, I just wanted to come in because it's been really difficult to breathe.
D: Yeah. So. Okay, well, we'll do a physical exam on you to try to understand how bad your COPD exacerbation is. We'll also try to get in oxygen saturation on you and we do want that reading to be between 88 to 92%. If it is less than that and we think you have a mild exacerbation, we'll just suggest that you use your short acting beta agonist puffer more often. And then if we think you have moderate, a moderate exacerbation, we'll also prescribe antibiotics and or steroids to go along with the short acting beta agonist. And if it is severe or if it becomes severe, please do seek out aid in the er and they'll probably put you on some sort of oxy, like some sort of supplemental oxygen, whether it's BiPAP or CPAP. And again, they'll continue giving you your bronchodilators and steroids as well as antibiotics to make sure that you don't have any bad complications of pneumonia. And it does sound like it is a COPD exacerbation at this point, but if you develop any other symptoms like fevers or any symptoms that overlap with viral illnesses, we'll work you up for that. I think we will still do a Covid swab on you just to make sure you don't have that, but we'll start with working you up for copd. How does that sound?
P: That sounds great. Thank you.
D: All right. Take care of.
