P: So I've just been having this cough over the last few days and I also noticed that I'm getting these headaches and chills as well at night, so I was just a bit concerned.
D: Okay, so the cough started a few days ago. Have you been bringing up any phlegm?
P: No, not really. It's been pretty much like a dry cough. I did feel like a tickle in my throat before it started, but no, I'm not producing any phlegm.
D: Okay. Is the cough any worse at any particular time of day, like when you first get up or at night when going to bed?
P: Oh, it's pretty much just been there over the last at least like two days. It's been getting worse more frequently.
D: Okay, so. And are you coughing all throughout the day?
P: Pretty much. At least for the last few days. Just, it's been pretty non stop.
D: Okay. Anything that's made the cough worse?
P: No, not really. It's pretty much been the same for the last few days.
D: Anything you've tried to make the cough go away?
P: Just like Tylenol cold and then I think there was another over the counter medication that I took but nothing really helping.
D: Okay. And the cough's been getting worse. Have you been experiencing any other symptoms?
P: I did just last night actually. I thought that I had some shortness of breath as well, so I don't know if that's being caused by all the coughing, but yeah, I got pretty scared, so that's why I'm here today.
D: Okay. Has anything like this happened to you before?
P: No, like I've been pretty healthy otherwise completely. So this is completely new for me.
D: Okay. And yeah, you mentioned you've had a fever. Have you checked your temperature?
P: No, I haven't. I just had like chills over the last two nights. Just had to put on like three, three blankets just to get to sleep, but I haven't really checked my temperature.
D: Okay. Have you had night sweats?
P: No, not really. Just mostly chills.
D: Okay. And how has your energy been the last few days? Have you had a lot of fatigue?
P: Yeah, I just feel completely just sick. Like it feels like I have the flu or something. I just feel really tired too.
D: Okay. Have you had a runny nose or sore throat?
P: No, not really. I did have like, I don't know if it was soreness but just like a tickle in my throat just a few days back before the coughing started.
D: Okay.
P: Yeah.
D: Have you had any loss of smell or a loss of taste?
P: Yeah, now that I think of it, I can barely taste the food that I'm eating. I don't know about smell. I'm pretty stuffy right now, so that might just be because of that, but I definitely noticed I can't really taste my food.
D: All right, and have you been having any wheezing?
P: No, no wheezing.
D: Alright. And shortness of breath? Were you at rest when that. That happened or were you exercising or exerting yourself? How did the shortness of breath come on?
P: I was actually just laying down and I was sleeping and I just noticed that I couldn't really take deep breaths so I kind of just got back up and it was just during last night. It hasn't happened after that. I'm scared it'll happen again.
D: Okay, and how many pillows do you usually sleep with?
P: Just one.
D: Have you noticed any swelling in your feet or ankles?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: All right, have you had any chest pain?
P: No, no chest pain.
D: Any feeling. Any episodes where you feel like you're gonna faint?
P: No.
D: Feeling like your heart's racing?
P: No.
D: All right, have you been having any abdominal pains?
P: No abdominal pains.
D: Alright, how about urinary problems?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Any bowel problems, like diarrhea?
P: No, it's pretty regular.
D: Okay, have you noticed any rashes anywhere?
P: No.
D: All right, and then how about like muscle aches or joint aches?
P: No, nothing like that. Just feeling tired.
D: Okay, and then have you had any changes to your vision?
P: No.
D: Like blurred vision or things like that?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Any changes to your voice? Like it sounds more hoarse to you or.
P: No, not really.
D: Okay. And any. No. You're vomiting.
P: I did feel a bit nauseous over the last two days, but I haven't vomited.
D: Okay. And have you been diagnosed with any medical conditions in the past?
P: No, I've been pretty lucky. No medical conditions. I don't even take any medications either.
D: Okay. Anything over the counter, like supplements or herbal?
P: No, just the cold medications over the counter. Nothing else.
D: Okay. Any allergies to medications?
P: Not that I know.
D: Any hospitalizations?
P: No.
D: Have you had any prior surgeries?
P: Nope.
D: Okay. And can you tell me a little bit about your living situation now?
P: Yeah, so I just live in a townhouse with my wife and two children and. Yeah. Currently working as an engineer. Yeah, pretty. Everything else is pretty good.
D: Okay. Have you had to miss work over the last few days?
P: Yeah, I actually didn't go to work yesterday. I just felt terrible yesterday.
D: Okay. How has the wife and kids been feeling at home?
P: They're actually completely fine. They don't seem to have any symptoms of like coughing or anything like that.
D: Anybody at work that's been sick?
P: There was actually, like, just. We work in the same kind of office setting. One of my co workers was coughing just last week, and, you know, my boss told us, told him to, like, go home and get some rest, and he was away for a couple days.
D: Okay. Do you know what. What he had or anything like that?
P: No, I'm not really sure now that I think of it. Like, I don't. I haven't seen him since, so I haven't really asked him. Yeah, not really sure.
D: Okay. Have you traveled anywhere or has anybody in your office been traveling anywhere?
P: No, not really. Not that I know of. Everything's pretty strict right now with the pandemic going on.
D: Okay. And you smoke cigarettes?
P: No.
D: Do you drink alcohol?
P: Just rarely. Maybe a couple times a month.
D: Okay. Do you use recreational drugs, like IV drug use or opioids or crystal meth, anything like that?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. And are you currently sexually active? Yep. Okay. Can you tell me a little bit about your. Your partner or partners?
P: Just my wife. No other sexual partners.
D: Okay. And have you had a sexually transmitted infection before?
P: Nope.
D: Okay. And so in regards to your family history, has anybody had similar symptoms before?
P: No, not really. Nothing like this.
D: Okay. Any heart attacks or strokes in the family?
P: No.
D: Okay, and then how about any cancers in the family?
P: I think I have an aunt who had breast cancer, but nothing else.
D: Okay, so those are all the questions I wanted to go through on history. I am concerned that you might have COVID 19 or coronavirus, and so it could be Covid, or this could be another viral infection or possibly pneumonia going on. But it does sound like you have an infection. And so we'll check some sputum cultures, and we'll also do a PCR nasal swab testing for Covid. So we'll go ahead and order those tests and we'll see what the results say.
P: All right, Sounds good.
