D: What brings you in today?
P: Hi. Yeah, I just came in. I just had this sudden. Just this morning after I woke up, just sudden shortness of breath. And like, each time I take a deep breath and I'm getting this chest pain.
D: Okay. And this just started this morning, you said?
P: Yeah.
D: Were you absolutely fine last night?
P: Yeah, I didn't have any trouble last night.
D: I see, I see. Okay. Any other. Does the chest pain only occur when you're taking a deep breath in?
P: Yeah, mainly it's during that time.
D: Okay. Have you had any other symptoms, such as a headache or a cough or runny nose, congestion? So sore throat?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Any changes in your bowel movement? Any pain in your belly? Any urinary symptoms?
P: No.
D: Any. Any pain in your legs?
P: I did notice last. Last night and for the last few days that my right calf, like, just feels painful and it seems a bit more swollen.
D: Was there anything that you were doing a couple of days ago? Any say, any flights or periods where you might be sitting still or lying still for a while? Any surgeries, anything like that?
P: I was just discharged from the hospital last week after a hip surgery.
D: Okay. Were you moving around at home after the hip surgery?
P: Not. Not really. Like, I've. I was told I should move around a bit, but it's been quite hard.
D: All right. And do you have any medical conditions that you've been diagnosed with?
P: Yes, I have a high blood pressure, and I also have this thing like. Like varicose versus.
D: Do you take any medications?
P: I take this medication called Lisinopril.
D: And any new medications ever started after your hospital stay?
P: No way. They give me, like, some pain medications. I see. To, like a hydromorphone medication. I've been trying to stay away from it, though, just taking Tylenol instead.
D: Is your pain controlled well with Tylenol?
P: Yeah, I. I try to suck it up. I just don't want to go on those other medications. I've heard, like, you can get addicted to them.
D: That's fair. That's a fair point. But it's also, I guess it's important that you move around at home, so maybe try to. Maybe we can increase our Tylenol dose or maybe see if there's another pain med that you can be started on if you're not interested in opioids, just to make sure that you're moving around, because that's very important at the hospital. Did you receive an injection in your tummy?
P: Injection in my tummy?
D: Every day? Once a day?
P: I think so. Yeah, I did.
D: Okay. Okay. All Right. And do you have any allergies?
P: No allergies.
D: Okay. And who do you live with?
P: I live alone. Yeah, right now I live alone in an apartment.
D: Were you discharged with any supports?
P: Yeah, I do have a nurse coming in, like, every. Every day, but I don't. They. They didn't come, like, yesterday.
D: Okay. Okay. And do you smoke or did you ever smoke in the past?
P: I used to smoke in probably in my 20s and 30s, but then I stopped when I had kids and stuff.
D: Do you drink alcohol?
P: Yeah, probably a glass of wine once or twice every couple days.
D: And just going back, how much did you smoke in your 20s and 30s and for how many years?
P: Probably smoked for probably 15 years for probably like half a pack a day.
D: All right. And do you consume any marijuana or any recreational drugs?
P: No.
D: Okay. All right. Well, given your symptoms, with the swelling and the pain in the right calf and the difficulties breathing, it's very likely that you have. And your recent hospitalization and hip injury, it sounds like you might have something called. Or a pulmonary embolism, basically, which is a blood clot inside your lungs. And so we'll do a scan of your lungs to see what's going on. We'll also do an ultrasound of your leg, and then we might have to treat this with blood thinners, and we definitely have to hospitalize you, and we'll be measuring your vitals and seeing if you need any oxygen to help you out.
P: Okay, so I'll be. I'll be here for a while then?
D: Well, we'll keep you for a bit. At least for the next couple of days until your breathing gets better and you've been started on anti. On blood thinners, and we can be sure that you're doing okay. We'll also continuously monitor your vital signs to make sure that you're doing well, and then we'll make sure that you're discharged. We'll also get you some physiotherapy here while you're in the hospital to help you mobilize better when you get home. And we'll also do a Covid swap, just in case. Did you have any exposures to anyone in the past couple of days before you came at home, after you came home?
P: No, I've been just at home. Just a nurse.
D: I see. I see. Okay, well, we'll do Covid swap just in case, and go from there. Do you have any questions?
P: No. Yeah, that sounds good.
D: Okay, great.
