D: I was wondering what I could help you with today.
P: Yeah, hi. I have been coughing non stop for the past three days, and today I have been feeling very short of breath, so I just wanted to get it all checked out.
D: Yeah, for sure. And so you said the cough started three days ago. Were there any triggers to the cough or anything that changed three days ago?
P: No, nothing that I can think of. I have, like, the only thing that I've been doing is going to the grocery stores, the bank and Laundromat. And once I ran all these errands, like, I just started having this coughing fit that hasn't stopped.
D: Okay, has the cough gotten any better or stayed the same or gotten worse these past three days?
P: It seems like it's getting worse.
D: Okay, are you bringing up any sputum or phlegm?
P: Yes, it's yellow.
D: Okay. Is this any different from before? Have you had a cough in the past and brought up phlegm or is this entirely new for you?
P: No, this has happened to me before, like, I don't know, like, maybe a year or two years back, and it kind of feels the same, but just a little bit worse.
D: Okay, and have you seen any blood in the sputum?
P: No, no blood.
D: Okay. And you mentioned you've been short of breath as well. How has that come on?
P: It was. I don't know if it's because of all the coughing that I've been doing, but it just started this morning.
D: Okay, and have you been experiencing shortness of breath on exertion otherwise, like, prior to this?
P: No. No.
D: Okay, and have you had any shortness of breath after, like, if you lie down flat?
P: No, not that I've noticed.
D: All right, and have you had a wheeze?
P: A little bit, yeah.
D: Okay, and have you had any infectious, like, symptoms such as, like, red eyes, runny nose, or a sore throat?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Have you had any. Any chest pain?
P: Nope, nothing like that.
D: Have you had any lightheadedness or feeling dizzy?
P: No.
D: Or feeling like your heart's racing or beating really fast?
P: No.
D: Okay. And have you had any fevers or chills?
P: No, not that I've noticed.
D: Have you had any night sweats?
P: No.
D: And how has your weight been over the last several months? Have you had any weight loss or gain?
P: No, it's been pretty stable.
D: Okay. And have you had any abdominal pain?
P: No.
D: Any diarrhea?
P: No.
D: Or any urinary problems?
P: No.
D: Okay. And in the past. Oh, sorry. Before that, have you had any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Okay. And any confusion or changes to memory no. Okay. Or loss of taste or sense of smell?
P: No.
D: Okay. So you've been experiencing this cough that's been getting worse over the last couple of days, as well as bringing up some yellow sputum and been short of breath. Have you been experiencing any other symptoms?
P: No, that's pretty much it.
D: Okay. And in the past, have you been diagnosed with any medical conditions?
P: I have diabetes, I have high blood pressure, and I have high cholesterol.
D: I see. All right. And do you take medications for those things?
P: Yes. So I am on Ramipril for the high blood pressure, suvastatin for the cholesterol, and insulin for the diabetes.
D: Okay, thank you. And you mentioned you had a similar episode in the past. Were you diagnosed with COPD before?
P: I was. I was diagnosed with COPD about five years back.
D: Okay. Did you have pulmonary function tests for this? A test where you had to breathe into a tube?
P: Yeah, I had that done like five years ago.
D: Okay. All right. Just wanted to see if it was formally diagnosed. Sometimes people. Yeah, it's important to have that. Those tests done. And do you have any allergies?
P: No. Nothing? None. Yeah.
D: Okay. And are your immunizations up to date?
P: Yes, I believe so.
D: Okay. And have you had any surgeries or hospitalizations?
P: I had my gallbladder removed when I was in my 50s and I had a hip fracture three years ago.
D: Okay. And how is your mobility now?
P: Pretty good. My hips still give me some issues once in a while, but for the most part it's been okay.
D: Okay, that's good. It sounds like the rehab went well.
P: Yeah.
D: And right now, can you tell me a little bit about your living situation, like where you're living and who you're living with?
P: I live by myself in an apartment on the first floor.
D: Okay. And do you smoke cigarettes?
P: No, I quit two years ago.
D: Okay, and that's great. Prior to that, how long did you smoke for and how much?
P: Oh, for like 40 plus years. I used to smoke a pack a day.
D: Okay, well, that's great that you quit. So congratulations.
P: Thank you.
D: And do you drink alcohol?
P: I drink once in a while. Like maybe every other day. I'll have a glass of wine.
D: Okay. And anybody or. Sorry. Have you been around anybody who's been sick recently? You said that you went to the stores and stuff like that.
P: Yeah. Maybe from there? Yeah.
D: Okay. And have you traveled anywhere else outside of the city?
P: Not recently, no.
D: All right. And any exposures to any, like, dust, chemicals, things like that?
P: I live in an old building, so maybe, but it hasn't bugged Me before.
D: Okay. And are you working currently or retired?
P: I'm retired.
D: Okay. What did you do before?
P: I used to work on the assembly line for Chrysler.
D: Okay. Were there any exposures there that you were aware of, like things that you were breathing in?
P: Not that I was aware of, but there were always, like, smoke and fumes and things like that because it was like a factory, so maybe.
D: Right. Okay, that makes sense. And in the family, are there anybody who's had problems with their heart or lungs?
P: My mom had lung cancer when she was 50, and all the diabetes, hypertension, and high cholesterol ran on my father's side of the family.
D: I see. Did anybody have a heart attack or stroke?
P: Yeah, so my father had a heart attack when he was 49. Stroke I'm not too sure about.
D: Okay, thank you. And so that was all I wanted to ask about, was, was there anything else that you wanted to add that I maybe forgot?
P: No, that's about it. But how can I treat myself now? How do I make this cough go away.
D: For sure? So we will first get your vitals here and we'll see if your oxygen levels are low. That would be important to put on some oxygen first just to make sure that that's stable. And from there we will get a chest X ray and run some lab work to try to help figure out the diagnosis better. But in the meantime, we'll use some inhalers because it's possible that this is a COPD exacerbation similar to last year. And the inhalers should help open up the airways and dilate so you make breathing easier. And then also, if it is a COPD exacerbation will likely require antibiotics as well as some steroids for the inflammation for five days. But since your symptoms currently overlap with COVID as well, we will have to get a Covid non nasal swab.
P: Okay. Okay. For sure.
D: Okay, so we'll get that started.
P: Okay. Thank you so much.
