D: What brings you in today?
P: I've been having this fever the last couple of days and I've had a cough as well and my nose keeps running.
D: Okay, and when did the fevers start?
P: I think the fever started two days ago.
D: Okay, how did you measure your. Check your temperature?
P: Yeah, it was 38.5 when I. When I checked it.
D: And have you been checking it the past two days? Has it gotten better or worse?
P: It's been about the same both days.
D: And your cough, when did that start?
P: Cough started four days ago.
D: Okay. Okay. Is it a wet cough or a dry cough?
P: It's been dry.
D: Do you haven't been bringing up any blood or any mucus or anything like that?
P: No, and I haven't had a cough before either. This is new.
D: Mm. Okay. And the runny nose, what kind of discharge or like what's coming out of your nose?
P: It's pretty. Pretty watery and clear.
D: Okay. All right. And when did that start?
P: Sorry, that started about four days ago as well. So at the same time as the cough.
D: Have you had any other symptoms such as having a stuffy nose, congestion in your sinuses, sore throat, red eyes, watery, teary eyes, sneezing, any of those symptoms?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Any difficulties breathing?
P: No.
D: Any pain in your chest?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any headaches?
P: Yeah, I have had a bit of a headache actually, just this morning.
D: How bad is it?
P: It's pretty mild. Something pretty simple. I've had headaches like this before. It's not a big deal.
D: And do you have any fatigue or muscle aches?
P: No muscle aches, but yeah, I have been fatigued the last couple of days, two, three days.
D: Any changes in your sense of smell?
P: No.
D: Changes in your sense of taste?
P: No.
D: Any pain in your belly or any diarrhea?
P: Nothing like that.
D: Okay. Alright. Any medical conditions that you've been diagnosed with?
P: No, I've been healthy.
D: Okay. Any surgeries or hospitalizations?
P: Nope, I haven't had anything like that before.
D: Okay, and did you take anything, any medications?
P: No, I'm not.
D: Okay. And allergies to food or medications or environmental Allergies?
P: I think I have an allergy to penicillin. I had a rash when I was younger, when I had that.
D: Okay, and do you currently. Who do you currently live at?
P: Yeah, so I just live with my mom.
D: Okay. Do you have any pets at home?
P: No, it's just us two. We live in a townhouse in the city.
D: Nice. Okay. And do you or your mom go out for school or for work?
P: Yeah, I've been going. Been going to school I know with some of the lockdowns and whatnot, the school's been open, so we've been going. They've been pretty cautious with the COVID protocols, but my mom's been working from home.
D: Okay, good. Do you feel like you or your mom may have had contact with anyone who could have potentially been sick?
P: I mean, maybe at school or something like that, but I can't think of anybody who's been sick.
D: Okay. All right. Have you traveled anywhere outside the province?
P: No.
D: Okay. And do you? I guess a couple of other more general questions. Do you feel safe at home?
P: I do. Yeah. I will. We have a good. A good relationship.
D: I'm glad. I'm glad. And anything that we discuss will stay confidential between you and me. Unless there's something that you. That we talk about that could harm you or harm anyone else. Do you feel safe at school?
P: Yes, I do. I enjoy school. It's been fun.
D: Oh, that's good. That's good. And have you been consuming any drugs, tried anything?
P: No. I've heard of other people, I mean, in my school doing stuff like that, but I haven't been around anything like that.
D: Okay. All right. Any alcohol?
P: No.
D: Okay. Are you sexually active?
P: No.
D: All right. And let's see. So you've had a fever, a cough, and a runny nose for the past few days. And have you been going to school in the past couple of days, or. No.
P: No, I've taken the last couple of days off. Just been so tired and not feeling good. So. Yeah.
D: Okay. Okay. So, yeah, it sounds like you might have some sort of a viral infection, which could potentially be Covid, but could also be another sort of another viral illness, just like the common cold or the flu. So I'll request that we get a Covid swab done, and the results should come back in 24 to 48 hours. And just try to self isolate as much as possible. Don't go to school. Don't meet other people. Try to stay away from your mom as well. And based on the results, you'll get more guidance from public health nurses, and you should just continue to rest and drink lots of water. Maybe take Tylenol or Advil if that's making you feel better. And hopefully your symptoms will get better. If not, if you feel like your symptoms are persisting for days or a week or so or you're having worsening symptoms, definitely come back or give us a call.
P: Okay. Thank you.
