P: I was just bringing my son. He's been a little. Has a cough for the last couple of days. I started about a day and a half ago, and it doesn't. It doesn't feel like a cold. He hasn't been too sick, but I was a little bit worried and I wanted him to get him seen to, see if there's anything we could do.
D: Yeah, for sure. It's a good thing that you brought him in. So the cough, is it consistent or does it come and go?
P: It seems to be a little bit worse at night. He'll have this cough during the day. Sometimes I'll notice when he's playing. He has these coughing fits that last for up to a minute, but he usually recovers from them. He hasn't been too active, to be honest. He's been a little bit slowed down last couple of days, but in regards to consistency, I'd say it's a little bit worse at night.
D: Okay. Any other triggers, like dust or the cold air, anything like that?
P: I haven't really noticed anything. We've been mainly keeping it inside due to Covid.
D: Right.
P: I think I left. My wife left a window open the other night, and maybe the cough was a little bit better. I'm not sure. It's kind of hard to tell when we sleep.
D: Yeah. Has he tried anything for it? Like, have you given him any over the counter cough medications?
P: No, we're a little scared to give him anything. He's so young. He's two and a half. We haven't been really giving him any medications, to be honest.
D: Okay, good. And if you were to describe the quality of his cough, would you say it's barky? Is it harsh?
P: Barky might be a good word to describe it. Like, he's had colds before. He has these, like, kind of quiet coughs. It sounds harsh.
D: It sounds harsh.
P: Really? Trying to cough hard. They're very violent sometimes.
D: Okay, okay. And has he ever had a cough like this in the past?
P: No, never.
D: Okay. And then in terms of the timeline, is it getting worse, his cough?
P: I think it has been. To be honest, he was a little ill. Like he had a runny nose a couple days ago, maybe two days ago, and then the cough started, but it only really started getting noticeably different. Yeah. About the night of the first day, about two days ago. So now it's been more present I suppose, than it was when he just first had it.
D: Okay. And is it a dry cough or does he bring up sputum?
P: Sputum, like phlegm? No, he doesn't bring anything up really. No, it's dry.
D: Okay. So no blood as well, right?
P: No, no, no blood.
D: Okay. Does he have any shortness of breath with his cough?
P: I feel like when he has the coughing fits, he's winded, he's weak after them. Sometimes he'll cry after them or before them. It'll kind of be a trigger for it. But just resting normally, he doesn't seem that out of breath.
D: No. Okay. Any wheeziness?
P: No, not really. He's able to breathe. I can't really hear him breathing that much. Sometimes at night after a bad cough, he'll be really winded. And yeah, it does sound. Sound like a little different when he's breathing, but just right now he sounds normal.
D: Okay. Okay. And any reason for you to think he would. He has any sort of chest pain?
P: No, he. He says his throat hurts, but I don't think it's. I don't think his chest hurts.
D: Okay. Has he had any fevers?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. Any change in his hair, nails or skin? Like rashes?
P: No, no rashes?
D: No. Okay. How about weight loss?
P: No weight loss. I've been a fairly healthy kid last couple of weeks.
D: Okay. And his vision and hearing are normal.
P: You know, I haven't gotten him formally assessed yet.
D: Okay.
P: He seems to be able to read pretty well from a distance. He's not in school yet, but I haven't noticed anything and no.
D: Oh, okay.
P: And he can hear fine. I think he responds when I call.
D: Okay. Has he had a stuffy or runny nose?
P: Yeah. Yeah, that's kind of how it first started three days ago. Maybe he had a runny nose.
D: Okay.
P: Yeah.
D: And does he still have a runny nose?
P: A little bit less now. No, not as much now.
D: Okay. And his taste, Any reason to believe there are any changes there?
P: Well, we've been kind of spoiling a bit, just giving ice cream. Throat hurts a little bit and he seems to still like it, so.
D: Okay.
P: It's hard to tell.
D: Okay, so he has a little bit of a sore throat as well?
P: Yeah.
D: Okay. Okay. And then any. Any dizziness or fainting spells that you've noticed?
P: He doesn't. No, no fainting or dizzy spells, but he's really gassed. After he has, like a coughing fit, he doesn't want to stand up. He'll just be sitting down or he wants to be held.
D: Okay. Yeah. Is he more irritable than usual?
P: He can be sometimes after he has a bad coughing fit, he'll want to be soothed and he'll Be crying, but it's just more just because he's worn out. He's not too irritable, he's just tired.
D: Yeah. Okay. And then any confusion or memory loss?
P: No, no.
D: Okay. Okay. And then in terms of his bowel movements, have things been normal from that standpoint?
P: Uh, yeah, we're in the process of potty training him, but no, no real changes.
D: Okay, so no diarrhea, no constipation, no blood in this stool?
P: No, no.
D: Okay. And he's passing gas. Okay.
P: Yeah, yeah, I'd say so.
D: Any nausea or vomiting?
P: We haven't been really feeding him solid meals. It's because he's been sick. We've been trying to give him soup and liquids for the most part. It's because throat hurts, but he's able to keep them down. So no, no nausea, no vomiting.
D: Okay, and then how about changes in his appetite?
P: Yeah, he's not eating as much. We're still, we're trying to force food into him, keep his energy up, but you around most of the time. He'd always be asking for snacks in the afternoon, but now not so much.
D: Okay. All right. And any, anything else that I missed that he's been experiencing over the past few days?
P: No, it was main. The cough.
D: Okay. Okay. And then is he otherwise healthy? Does he have any long standing medical conditions?
P: No. Long standing medical conditions? Yeah, nothing really. He had a little bit of stay in the NICU just because he was just a little bit underweight, but no, nothing really.
D: Okay. And then his mother's pregnancy with him, Any complications at that point?
P: Yeah, he's a little preterm. He's born at 34 weeks, I think.
D: Okay. Was he also. So. And then he was underweight too, you mentioned?
P: Just a little bit, yeah.
D: Okay. Any complications during the actual delivery?
P: Not that I remember. Like she started going to labor early, like earlier than we expected. We thought it was just. Just irregular contractions that just resolved, but it wound up proceeding. So when we showed up to hospital.
D: Okay. And then in terms of growth, weight and head circumference, has he been hitting all those milestones for the past two and a half years?
P: Yeah, we bring him to the family doctor every couple of months or for his regular checkups. And no, nothing's been brought up to be concerning. Just for his vaccines have been doing well.
D: Okay, and then how about other milestones like speech, movement, fine movement, all of that. Like, have those been normal? Is he on par with his peers?
P: Yeah, this is our first kid, but compared to his cousins, he seems to Be doing well. He's speaking. Got little sentences now. He's good. Eye contact. He's a good kid.
D: Okay, good, good. Any hospitalizations or surgeries aside from when he was born?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. Okay, good. And is he on any medications?
P: No.
D: No. Okay.
P: I'd give him like a flintstone gummy.
D: Oh, okay, good. Is he up to date with all his immunizations?
P: Yeah.
D: Okay. Any allergies?
P: Not that we know of.
D: Any family history of lung conditions?
P: So his. My grandfather. So his great grandfather, I suppose it would be, passed away from lung cancer. He was a heavy smoker, though, on my mom's side. There's some breast cancer. Nothing really that comes to mind for lungs? No.
D: Okay. And any heart conditions?
P: No, not that we know of.
D: Okay, how about other cancers in the family?
P: So, grandpa, lung cancer? No, not that I know of.
D: Okay, how about asthma, eczema, or allergies in the family?
P: You know, I think my sister's allergic to peas, but it was never. She never got sick from them or had, like to be good at the hospital? No, I don't think there are any allergies in the family.
D: Okay. Okay. Okay, good. Has he been in contact with anyone who's been sick recently?
P: You know, we just. Not just, but, like, five days ago, he had a play date with his cousin, and we kind of thought that that's where he got the cold from, like the runny nose, but just turned weird, you know?
D: No. Okay. And how's his cousin doing?
P: Last time I talked to Charlotte about Hank seems to be doing well, so.
D: Okay. All right. And has he traveled to anywhere recently? Have any of you traveled anywhere recently?
P: No. With COVID and everything, we've just been keeping to ourselves.
D: Okay. And who and where does he live?
P: He lives with me and his mother.
D: Okay. In a house. Apartment.
P: In a house.
D: House. Okay. Any old carpets or mold or concerns for asbestos, anything like that at home? I don't know.
P: When this house is built, I don't think there's any asbestos in it, and it's all hardwood, so. No.
D: No. Okay. Okay, good. Does anyone at home smoke?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. Okay, good. So those were all the questions that I had. Do you have any questions for me?
P: No. No. That's it?
D: No. Okay. Well, from the sounds of it. And, yeah, from the sounds of it, he most likely has some sort of viral infection. We will do a Covid swab to rule that out, because some symptoms do seem to overlap with COVID and we want to make sure to rule that out. So we'll take a swab. Those PCR results should come back in about 24 to 48 hours. In the meantime, he should isolate for 14 days at home. And if it's not Covid, it could be another viral infection like parainfluenza, also known as croup. So for that, for any of these viral infections, actually, the best treatment is to stay at home and make sure that he's very well hydrated and eating well. If his symptoms persist for three to five days or more, or if his symptoms worsen, especially if he has, like, a seizure, any neurological issues, he should go to the ER and if his symptoms do become worse, we can also prescribe him some steroids or epinephrine just to open up his airways. And if it's really, really bad, he might be hospitalized as well. So just keep an eye on. On that for now, and if you have any questions or concerns, just give us a call. How does that sound?
P: A little scary, but sounds good. Okay.
D: I'll keep an eye on him. Yeah, just keep an eye on him for the next five days or so, and then give us a call if his symptoms are becoming worse or if they're not resolving. And we'll try to do an assessment on him. Of course, we'll do a physical exam today, and we'll let you know, like, how severe his symptoms are. Most children will get over their infection on their own, and he likely won't need any additional treatment.
P: Okay, Sounds good.
D: All right, take care.
P: Thank you.
