D: I just want to start with what brings you in here today to the family clinic.
P: This morning. I. Right after I woke up, I coughed up some phlegm, and there was some blood in it, and it totally scared me.
D: Okay, and was this the first time that happened?
P: Yeah, I've never. I've never noticed blood in my sputum before.
D: Okay, but have you been coughing recently?
P: Yeah, I have had a cough recently leading up to this.
D: Okay, and how long have you had the cough for?
P: I've had it for. Yeah, about. About four weeks.
D: About four weeks. Okay. Do you know if you did anything prior to that, any new exposures or being around someone ill, like, anything like that that might have caused your cough?
P: Yeah, I was just down in. I went to Haiti on it on a trip for. For a volunteer program with my school, and I definitely noticed there was a lot of people down there coughing.
D: Okay, and did you at all live in, like, close quarters or were you crammed into, like, smaller spaces at all when you were there?
P: Yeah, we were kind of living with the locals while we were. While we were there. It was part of the experience, volunteering. I was there for almost two months as part of. Part of my summer break through university.
D: Okay, and did you notice at all any potential exposures to tuberculosis, anyone there that had tuberculosis or found out later?
P: Yeah, there were definitely some people around that I heard of who mentioned tuberculosis, but I don't know of anybody specifically who had it.
D: Okay, and the cough that you've been having for the last four weeks, is it like a wet cough? Are you producing any sputum or phlegm, or is it more of a dry cough?
P: I have been producing some phlegm, but it's been just kind of white yellowish.
D: Up until this morning?
P: Yeah. Or more so clear, actually, up until today where I saw some blood.
D: Okay, and how much blood was in the phlegm? Was it like a significant amount? Did it fill the whole production or just little streaks?
P: It was pretty red. It. Yeah, it was bright red, and it was covering the tissue.
D: Okay, and have you had any similar episodes before?
P: I've never brought up blood before.
D: Okay, and after this morning, was that the only time you had that, or did you. Did it recur at all?
P: It was just that time, like, just this morning on the tissue, and then a little bit in the toilet, and it looked like a lot in the water.
D: Okay, I see. And how often are you coughing in, like, an average day? Are you coughing throughout the day or does it come and go?
P: It's been pretty Severe throughout the day I've been just coughing a ton.
D: Okay. Anything that makes your coughing go away or makes it worse at all.
P: Nothing seems to help. I've tried various over the counter medications and stuff for cough and nothing has seemed to help it.
D: Okay, and are you having any other symptoms at all, like shortness of breath, sore throat, runny nose, anything like that?
P: Nothing like that. I mean, the back of my throat feels a little itchy from the coughing, but not really sure.
D: Okay. Are you having any headaches or nausea or vomiting?
P: Nothing like. Well, a little bit of nausea maybe, but no vomiting.
D: Okay. How often are you getting nausea?
P: It's coming after. Like if I'm having a really big coughing fit, I could feel a little nauseous after, but it doesn't last very long.
D: Okay. Are you having any fevers or chills?
P: Yeah, I've been having some fevers throughout the day and feeling really hot and really sweaty at night.
D: Okay. How often are you getting night sweats?
P: A few times this past week I've woke up soaked.
D: Okay, and have you at all measured your temperature when you felt like these chills and night sweats?
P: No, I haven't measured my temperature yet.
D: Okay. Have you noticed at all any increase fatigue throughout the day?
P: Yeah, I've definitely been more. More tired. I haven't been able to concentrate on. On my schoolwork.
D: Okay. And have you been having any shortness.
P: Of breath just after the, like coughing really, but otherwise? No.
D: Any chest pain?
P: No chest pain.
D: Any feeling that your heart is racing?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Any swelling in your limbs at all?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any loss of sense of taste or smell?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Any changes in your bowel movements?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any changes in your urination?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any changes at all in your sleep?
P: Just been. Well, I haven't been sleeping as well. Waking up all sweaty and the cough has kept me up a little bit too.
D: Okay. Any changes in your appetite?
P: No, I've been eating. Okay.
D: Have you noticed at all any weight loss over the last few months?
P: Yeah, I think I'm down like £15 since the summertime, which is great.
D: Okay. Have you tried to lose weight at all or has it just been completely unintentional?
P: Well, I mean, my appendix was taken out a few months ago and I guess after that I maybe wasn't eating as much, but I mean, I wasn't really trying to lose weight.
D: Okay. And have you had any recent exposure to any fumes or dust or animals?
P: Oh, my parents have a dog at home, but I've Been away at school, so.
D: Okay. Okay. In terms of your overall health, have you been diagnosed with any medical conditions before?
P: No, I'm healthy.
D: So, like, no asthma or anything like that?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Are you on any medications currently?
P: Yeah, I take an oral contraceptive pill.
D: Okay, and when did you start that?
P: Probably about five years ago.
D: Okay. Do you have any allergies to any medications or any environmental allergies at all?
P: Yeah, I think Septra. It gives me a rash.
D: Okay. Any previous hospitalizations?
P: No, I've never been in the hospital before.
D: Okay. Any previous surgery? So you said you had the appendix removed, but anything else?
P: No, the appendix was the only thing.
D: Okay. Any family history of asthma or any. Any lung conditions, any cancers that run in the family?
P: Yeah, but. Well, my grandfather had lung cancer, but he smoked for his entire life, and my mom has had diabetes for quite some time, but no lung problems.
D: Okay. Any heart attacks in the family or any autoimmune conditions?
P: No.
D: Okay. And currently, what is your living situation like?
P: So I live with four roommates here going to school.
D: Okay. And so do you work right now or are you just a student right now?
P: Just a student.
D: Okay. And currently, do you smoke.
P: Also? I guess, maybe. Maybe socially, so maybe a pack of cigarettes a week at the most.
D: Okay. And any recreational drug use like marijuana?
P: Yeah, I'll smoke one or two joints on the weekend with friends, socially.
D: Okay. Yeah. So, yeah. Does smoking marijuana or cigarettes make your symptoms worse at all?
P: It depends. Yeah, sometimes it can bring on some more coughing.
D: Yeah. So, yeah, we always recommend cutting down or quitting smoking whenever we see patients who are smoking, especially like, you're fairly young and you know, your grandfather had history of lung cancer with smoking throughout the year. So as early as we can quit smoking, the better for the long term health of your lungs. But whenever you're thinking of quitting or if you want any more resources about quitting, just let me know. We can set up a separate appointment for that.
P: Okay, that sounds good. Yeah, maybe. Maybe next appointment we can talk about that.
D: Okay, sounds good. Any. So no recreational. So just besides marijuana, any other recreational drugs like cocaine or crystal meth, anything of that sort?
P: No, not. Well, sometimes at parties, maybe a few times a year with friends, we'll use ecstasy or something like that, but that's only a few times a year.
D: Okay. And any alcohol?
P: Yeah, yeah, I'll have a few drinks on the weekend with friends. Usually like rum or beer.
D: Okay. Yeah. So those are all the questions I had for you today. Any questions or concerns or any ideas of what you think this might be.
P: I don't know, really concerned about the blood that I brought up. I mean, is this cancer or tuberculosis, like one of those tuberculosis infections that I heard about while I was away?
D: Yeah. So definitely cancer is pretty unlikely because you're fairly young and you've just recently started smoking. But one of the things that we're concerned about is your recent travel history being in close quarters. So definitely we need to get a chest X ray, and we can even do a sputum culture to test for tuberculosis. And then based on the results, we might have to start you on, like, a whole antibiotic regimen if it does come back as tuberculosis. Yeah, we'll get those investigations done first, and then we'll go from there.
P: Okay, thank you.
D: We'll also get some blood work done as well, so that'll be done before your next appointment. All right, that sounds good.
P: Thank you.
D: You're welcome.
