D: What can I do for you?
P: Hi. Yeah, so I just came here today because I've just been feeling like I have this really sore throat for the last week and I've also been getting some chills over the last few nights as well. So, yeah, I just came in today to check it out.
D: Okay, and when did. So your sore throat started? A week ago. What about the chills?
P: Chills? I've been feeling them over the last few nights and I've also just been feeling very tired and over the last whole week as well.
D: Okay. Have you had any difficulties swallowing?
P: Yeah, I definitely feel like I do get some pain when swallowing, but I think maybe just with the sore throat.
D: And have you had, have you had any headaches?
P: No headaches.
D: Any stuffy nose or runny nose?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: No sinus congestion?
P: No.
D: Okay. What about a cough?
P: No cough. Really? I've also noticed also like the back of my. When I look in the mirror is like just very red and like angry looking.
D: And. Any difficulties breathing?
P: No.
D: Any pain in your chest?
P: No.
D: Do you feel like your heart is racing?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Any changes in your bowel movements or your urinary or any urinary concerns?
P: No.
D: No belly pain or muscle aches?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. All right. So are you. Do you have any medical conditions that you've been diagnosed with?
P: No, I've been pretty healthy all my life.
D: Any medications that you've been on?
P: No.
D: Any allergies?
P: No allergies.
D: Okay. And any medical conditions that run in the family?
P: I think my mom has diabetes.
D: And who do you currently live with or do you live alone?
P: I live with my mom.
D: Anyone else at the house?
P: No, it's just us too.
D: All right, and any recent exposures to anyone who might be sick?
P: My. My boyfriend, he kind of had similar symptoms, I would say, a few weeks ago.
D: And did he. Did he get. Did he see a doctor?
P: No, he didn't want to go to the doctor and it kind of just resolved like it went on away on its own.
D: Okay. All right. And do you, do you drink?
P: Just on the weekends. Maybe some wine.
D: And what about marijuana?
P: Just socially, like right now there's no parties, but like when I'm at parties.
D: What about alcohol?
P: Yeah. So just social media right now. My mom drink it every now and then.
D: I see. Okay. All right, well, that's all the questions I had and. Sorry, one more. Have you been up to date with your immunization so far?
P: Yeah, I've been having all my immunizations. I also feel like so with the sore throat, I also have some pain on the sides, like, on my. On my neck. Like, I almost feel like some lumps on both sides.
D: Oh, I see. I see. Okay. Okay. So I guess at this point I would like to maybe have examined you, just have a look inside your throat, maybe feel your neck for those lumps, and then decide what to do from there. Given your symptoms, this could be a viral infection or it could be bacterial infection caused by a bacteria called, or I guess strep throat. It could also be mono, but I'll have a look. We'll do the rapid strep test, and based on those results, we'll decide what to do. If it is strep, you might require antibiotics. If not, if it's mono, and if we can do maybe a blood test for that, you might have to not engage in physical activity or exercise, vigorous activity or like sports for the next couple weeks or months, as that can be. As that can cause problems. If you get hit in the stuff in your belly, it could cause your spleen to rupture. Sometimes your spleen becomes very big. If you do have mono. But we'll discuss all of that a little bit more after we do the strep test. I'll also check your temperature and see how you're doing. Have you been taking anything to help yourself to help soothe your sore throat?
P: Just some lozenges.
D: Yeah. So just continue just drinking water and taking lozenges just to provide some comfort for yourself and we'll do the test, then we can chat a bit more after.
P: Sounds good. Thank you so much.
