D: How could I help you today?
P: Hi, I'm the mom of the patient, and I just wanted to talk to you about Thomas here. He's just not been feeling well. He's had this cough for the past three or four days, and he's also had this stuffy nose and this watery discharge. Yeah, he's just not feeling good.
D: Okay, I see. And so the cough, you said, started three or four days ago. Has the cough gotten any better or any stayed the same or gotten worse?
P: Gotten a bit worse, I would say.
D: Is he bringing up any sputum?
P: No.
D: So has there been any blood?
P: No. No.
D: Okay. And has the cough interfered with sleep?
P: Yeah, Scoff's usually worse at night.
D: Okay. And you said that he's also had a runny nose. What does that. The discharge look like?
P: It's just. It's watery.
D: And this started three or four days ago as well?
P: A little. A little after the. Yeah, actually around the same time. Around the same time, yeah.
D: Okay. Has he had any, like, difficulties breathing, like, saying that he feels one of the. Like the nostrils obstructed?
P: He hasn't. Well, he's just been breathing with his mouth open, so that's what he does at night as well. He also has this nasal voice right now, probably because, you know, he has this stuffy nose, but he hasn't really complained about it.
D: Yeah. Does he have any pain, like facial pain?
P: No, not really.
D: Okay, how about any changes to smell or loss of smell?
P: Yeah, I don't think he can smell much right now.
D: Okay, and did those. Did that start a few days ago as well?
P: Yeah, yeah, since he's been complaining of his stuffy nose.
D: Okay. Has he had any headaches?
P: No, but he has had a fever.
D: Okay, how did you check it?
P: Yeah, I did. I did. It was 39 last night.
D: All right. Certainly a fever. Has he had any chills or night sweats?
P: Yeah, he's been feeling pretty chilly.
D: Okay.
P: Yeah, he's wearing a couple of layers at home. Still feels chilly. And yeah, he has a lot of chills and definitely has a fever.
D: All right, and has the fever been there the whole whole time, if you're aware, or is that kind of calm and gone?
P: You know what, I actually just checked yesterday, so I don't know.
D: All right. Has he had a sore throat?
P: Yeah, it's usually worse in the morning. I think it's more of a. I guess the post nasal drip, you know, with the runny nose, it's just. It's pretty bad in the morning.
D: Okay. Has he had any red Eyes or eye discharge or eye pain?
P: No. No, no, no.
D: Okay. Has he had any shortness of breath?
P: No.
D: How about any wheezing?
P: No.
D: Any chest pain?
P: No.
D: Any lightheadedness, dizziness or fainting?
P: No.
D: Okay, and does he mention anything about feeling as though his heart's racing?
P: No.
D: Okay. And has he had any abdominal pain?
P: No.
D: Any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Any diarrhea or constipation?
P: No.
D: How about any urinary problems, like pain or frequency?
P: No, nothing like that. He hasn't complained of anything like that.
D: Has he had any skin changes or rashes?
P: No.
D: And how about any muscle aches or joint pains?
P: Yeah, yeah, he definitely has that. He's been complaining a lot about muscle aches.
D: Okay, and how's his energy been? Has he been fatigued?
P: Oh, yeah. He hasn't gone out to play. He hasn't done anything. He's just been laying in bed.
D: Okay. And over the last several months, has he had any weight loss?
P: No. Decent gaining weight, actually.
D: Okay. Oh, that's good, certainly. Yeah. At the age of 11. Should be still gaining weight, so that's good. And has he been diagnosed with any medical conditions in the past?
P: Yeah, he was diagnosed with cystic fibrosis when he was. Uses a child four years old.
D: Okay, and is he on, like, any medications for that?
P: He's on. He was on a antibiotic until the age of five that he had to take on a regular basis, but he's. He's not really on any medications right now. I know that there are a couple of new ones that are out there, but those are very expensive.
D: Okay, and has he had any exacerbations or hospitalizations?
P: Yeah, he's had about one hospitalization every two years.
D: All right, and is he followed by a respirologist currently?
P: Yes, yes, yes.
D: Okay. And has there been, like, an increase in the sputum production or, like, worsening shortness of breath over these last few days?
P: No, not really.
D: Okay, and has he had any surgeries?
P: No.
D: Does he have any allergies to medications.
P: The sulfa drugs and the reaction? He just gets a rash.
D: Okay. Are immunizations up to date?
P: Oh, yeah, yeah. We're very careful about that. Given his diagnosis. He's got all the. All the vaccines.
D: That's great. That's really important for sure. And so I just wanted to ask about life at home a little bit. So who's in the house and who's the primary caregiver for him?
P: I'm the primary caregiver. It's just me, him, and my Husband.
D: Okay. And is he. What grade is he in right now?
P: He's in grade six.
D: Okay. And how is school going?
P: School's going well. It's just the. Yeah. The hospitalizations can sometimes be disruptive, but it's going well. He's getting B's in his class. He's doing well. He's got a good group of friends.
D: Excellent. And have you had any concerns about development or his growth?
P: No.
D: Okay, so meeting all milestones.
P: Yeah.
D: Okay. And in regards to birth history, were there any complications throughout pregnancy or at birth?
P: No, nothing at birth or during pregnancy. But he did start having lots of the respiratory infections, which is when the pediatrician did that test. I forget the name, but the test. And then they were. He was found to have cf.
D: Okay. And does anybody in the home smoke?
P: No.
D: Or drink alcohol?
P: No.
D: Okay. And are there any pets in the home?
P: No.
D: Okay. And has he been around anybody who's been sick?
P: I don't think so.
D: Okay. And have you guys traveled anywhere?
P: No, she's been at home.
D: Okay. And has anybody else in the family have cystic fibrosis?
P: No. No one else does. But we got tested and we were both found to. My husband never found to have the gene for it. We were carriers.
D: Okay, I see. And any heart conditions or other lung conditions that run in the family?
P: No, nothing.
D: Okay. And were there any other symptoms that or anything else that you wanted to tell me that maybe I forgot to ask about?
P: No, I was just. I was just worried about him, about his fever specifically. It's been high, and I know that usually when he has these hospitalizations, he presents pretty similarly. So I was just wondering if he would need to be hospitalized again and if he needs antibiotics.
D: Yeah, for sure. So it's been three or four days, but with a fever this high and his symptoms with having obstruction, discharge, and changes to smell or loss of smell, it does sound like it could be bacterial. And so I think it would be reasonable to possibly to start antibiotics in this case, but go through a physical exam, check some vitals, and go from there.
P: Okay? Okay, sounds good. Thank you.
