D: How may I help you?
P: Hi, yeah, I'm here because over the past like couple months I've been losing a lot of weight, but I didn't really have any other symptoms. But since like two weeks ago, I've been coughing up some blood and now I have a fever as well.
D: Okay, so you mentioned you noticed the weight loss first. How much weight have you lost roughly?
P: I've lost about 30 pounds in the past like eight months.
D: Okay, so. And have you been trying to lose weight?
P: No.
D: Okay, and any changes to your diet or exercise?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay, and more recently you started to have a cough. When did that start?
P: The cough started two weeks ago.
D: Okay, and prior to this, did you have a cough?
P: No, no.
D: And are you bringing up any sputum or phlegm?
P: Yeah, there's sputum for sure and it looks bloody.
D: Okay, so you're coughing up blood as well?
P: Yes, that's right.
D: Okay, and that's been going on for the last two weeks too? Yes. Okay, and how much blood have you been bringing up roughly? If you can think of it in terms of tablespoons or teaspoons, Every time.
P: I cough, it's about the size of a teaspoon.
D: Okay, and are there any triggers for your cough that you can think of?
P: I don't think so. They just happen throughout the day.
D: Okay, and have you tried anything for the cough?
P: I've tried this cough suppressants, I tried like salt water rinses, like just like at home remedies and over the counter products, but nothing's helping.
D: Okay, and so have you had any like viral infectious type symptoms such as like eye discharge or red eyes or a runny nose or even a sore throat?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay, and have you had any headaches?
P: No, no headaches.
D: Okay. Have you had any. Have you had a runny nose?
P: No.
D: Okay, how about any? Have you had any loss of smell or taste?
P: No.
D: Okay, have you had any shortness of breath?
P: No.
D: Have you had any wheezing?
P: No, no wheezing.
D: Okay. Have you had any chest pain?
P: No.
D: Okay, have you had any dizziness or fainting?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Have you had any heart palpitations?
P: No.
D: Okay, and have you had any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Have you had any abdominal pain?
P: No.
D: Have you had any diarrhea or constipation?
P: No.
D: Have you had any pain with urination or frequency?
P: No.
D: Okay, have you had any rashes?
P: No.
D: How about muscle aches or body pains?
P: Muscle aches? Yeah, yeah, that's been happening.
D: Any particular muscles or is it more general.
P: It's more general.
D: Okay. Have you been having any bone pain, like, any in your back or anything like that?
P: No.
D: Okay. And how has your energy been?
P: Pretty low.
D: Okay. And how has your appetite been?
P: Also? Pretty low.
D: Okay. And in the past, have you been diagnosed with any medical conditions?
P: No, I've been pretty healthy so far.
D: Okay, so do you take any medications regularly for anything?
P: No.
D: Okay. And do you have any allergies to medications or. Or anything environmental?
P: No.
D: Okay. And have you had any prior hospitalizations or surgeries?
P: Nope.
D: Okay. And could you tell me a little bit about your living situation currently, like who you're living with and whereabouts you're living?
P: I live alone by myself. I live in an apartment downtown.
D: Okay. And are you working currently or in school or.
P: I'm working. I'm working from home right now.
D: Okay. Have you been around anybody who's been sick?
P: No.
D: Have you traveled anywhere recently?
P: No, not since I moved here.
D: Okay, when did you move here and where did you move from?
P: I moved here a year back from Sri Lanka.
D: Okay, and in Sri Lanka, were any of your family members or people that you spent time around ever diagnosed with tuberculosis?
P: I mean, it's pretty common in Sri Lanka. None of my immediate family members were.
D: Okay. And do you smoke cigarettes?
P: No.
D: And yeah. Do you smoke cannabis or use any cannabis products?
P: No.
D: Okay. And do you drink alcohol?
P: I don't.
D: Okay. How about the use of any other recreational drugs?
P: No.
D: Okay. And any family history of heart or lung problems, part of lung?
P: No, not that I know of.
D: Okay, and how about any cancers in the family?
P: No, no cancers.
D: I see. All right. Did you have any other questions for me today? I think that was everything I wanted to ask about for now.
P: No. What do you, like, what do you think I have, and how do you think I should treat it?
D: So, yeah, it's sounding like it could be tuberculosis based on the kind of timeline of your symptoms and so on, and cough and hemoptysis. So we'll do some tests for that, like an acid fast test of the sputum, and get a chest X ray. And if it is tuberculosis, it will require a prolonged course of antibiotics, so that will be over several months. And so we'll get the infectious disease team involved to help kind of guide our management with the appropriate antibiotic choice if it does come back to be tuberculosis.
P: Okay. Okay, that sounds good. Thank you.
