D: What brings you in today?
P: So I. So I have COPD and usually, like, pretty manageable with my puffers and that, but just in the last, like, three days, I feel like it's gotten a lot worse. You know, I feel like I'm coughing more often, and I'm now kind of producing more sputum. Kind of like a greeny, yellowy sputum. I even noticed that there was, like, a little bit of blood a couple times when I was, like, really coughing hard, finding it, like, harder to breathe than usual. I don't have home office or anything. I'm not. I didn't think I was quite there yet, but these last few days, it's been really hard to breathe.
D: I see. Okay. So all of this has happened in the past three days. Have your symptoms gotten better or worse over this time?
P: I feel like they've been maybe getting a little worse. They definitely haven't gotten better.
D: Mm. Okay. And has this ever happened to you before?
P: I've had. I've had some troubles, like, when I've been sick before where the cough has gotten pretty bad. This is probably. This is probably the worst that I've had, but I have, like, I have had. My COPD has been made worse by being sick.
D: I see. Okay. Well, I guess the first thing we're gonna. So how. How bad is your shortness of breath?
P: Like, I walked here, fine, but I normally, like, can walk around the block, and I go for a walk usually a couple times a day to walk my dog, and it's been a little bit trickier to do that.
D: I see. Okay. And have you ever had any hospitalizations in the past specifically for COPD exacerbations?
P: I haven't, like, stayed over in the hospital. I'd, like, come to emerge a couple times.
D: How many times?
P: I think twice. Maybe over the last, like, three years.
D: When were you diagnosed with copd?
P: Four or five years ago.
D: Okay. Was it formally diagnosed using the proper testing?
P: Yeah. They referred me to a lung doctor.
D: I see. Okay. And have you had any fevers or chills?
P: Oh, I feel like I may have had a fever last night. I felt really hot.
D: Did you check your temperature?
P: I don't have a thermometer at home.
D: Yeah, no problem. We can check your temperature here.
P: Yeah, if I had to bet, I would say I had a fever.
D: Sure. And have you had any other symptoms? So have you had, like, a runny nose or stuffy nose? Knee pain in your sinuses?
P: I think I've had a bit of, I guess, pressure in the sinus. Area. But the cough has been the thing that's been the most bothersome.
D: I see. And have you had a sore throat at all?
P: No.
D: Okay. A headache.
P: Maybe a little bit, yeah.
D: Okay. And any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Diarrhea or constipation?
P: Nope.
D: Abdominal pain?
P: No.
D: Okay. And have you recently lost weight unintentionally?
P: No. No. I wish, but no.
D: Okay. Have you had any night sweats where you feel like you're drenched in sweats at night?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: And have you had any exposures to anyone who could potentially be sick?
P: Let me think. I meet my. I meet a couple friends to walk our dogs together outside, and one of them was a bit sick for a bit. We try not to get too close, but maybe. I don't know, maybe sometimes we walk a little too close. We feel too safe because we're, like, outside.
D: Okay. Okay. And did your friend get a COVID test done?
P: I don't know.
D: That's okay. Okay. And you mentioned that you had COPD that was diagnosed four or five years ago. Any other medical conditions that you've been diagnosed with?
P: Yeah, I have a high blood pressure.
D: Okay. And are you taking any medications?
P: I'm not. I'm not. We've talked about it, but I. I decided to try to change my lifestyle as much as I could first.
D: Sure.
P: And I've also done that for the copd. It's generally pretty. Like, I've been really trying to take care of it, but I feel like I maybe got sick or something this time. Yeah. So my blood pressure is, like, okay right now. Okay. I've had high blood pressure, and then I lost weight and started this walking more.
D: That's great. That's really, really good that you're taking better care of yourself. Should definitely continue doing that.
P: Right?
D: Mm. Of course. Yeah. And you've mentioned that you have some buffers. How often do you use those?
P: Oh, like, I have the one that I use every day that I'm supposed to just use no matter what. And then the one that I use when kind of just when I need it, I probably use it, like, once every two weeks.
D: Okay. Okay. And you mentioned that your COPDs are getting better. Do you find that it's affecting your life in any way? Affecting the way that you're doing your daily activities at home or at work if you're working?
P: I'm, like, pretty okay except for, like, if I get sick. So, yeah, it's been. I think it's, like, pretty well managed. Like, I stay on top of my lifestyle now.
D: That's good. Do you have any allergies?
P: No.
D: No Allergies to medications?
P: No.
D: Okay, good. Do you. Just a couple more general questions. Have you traveled anywhere outside the province recently?
P: No.
D: You? I guess I should have asked you earlier, but have you noticed any change in your sense of smell?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: Any change in your sense of taste?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: Any confusion or fuzzy feeling?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. Any muscle aches in your body?
P: No.
D: Okay. All right. And just kind of some questions about your living situation. Do you currently live alone? And you mentioned that you have a dog. Are there any. Is there anyone. Anyone else in the house?
P: My husband.
D: Okay. And do you currently work?
P: Yeah, I, like. I've been working from home. I work for the municipality.
D: I see. Do you think you might have had any exposures to, say, dust or smoke or anything like that that could have worsened your symptoms?
P: I don't think so.
D: Okay. And do you drink alcohol?
P: Oh, very rarely.
D: Okay. Do you smoke?
P: I used to. I quit once. They said I had COPD. I smoked a half pack a day for probably 20 years.
D: Okay. Okay. And do you consume marijuana or any recreational drugs?
P: No.
D: Okay. All right, Well, I guess one more question. Are there any lung diseases or heart conditions or cancers that run in the family?
P: No, nothing that I can think of.
D: All right, well, those are all the questions I had for you. We will now do a physical exam and look at your vitals and listen to your chest. It's likely that what you have right now is COPD exacerbation, maybe just like an infection that you got which worsened some of your COPD symptoms. We would also have to rule out Covid, so we'll be doing a Covid swab. And. And we'll decide based on your labs and your vital signs and some other things, whether you need to stay in the ER and be admitted or if you are good to go home. I will also talk to my attending, and we'll make those decisions together and come back and talk to you. Does that sound good to you?
P: Yeah, that sounds great. Thank you.
D: You're welcome.
