D: So what brings you in here today?
P: Yeah, I have my 2 year old daughter here with me. I don't know what's happening with her, but she seems to be getting really sick, so I'll give you the kind of timeline. So two days ago she was feeling hot, and her fever hasn't broken. We've been giving her Tylenol, but she still seems to have a fever. The last time I checked, her temperature was 38.5. She seems to have issues swallowing food, she's drooling, and she seems short of breath.
D: Okay, and when did she start getting short of breath?
P: That started yesterday.
D: Okay, and has the fever been getting worse or. It stayed around the same.
P: So I just. So I checked. The first day it was like 38. Now it's 38.5.
D: Okay, and when did the trouble swallowing start?
P: That started yesterday as well.
D: Okay. And it's. Has it been getting worse at all?
P: I think so. Now she's barely even drinking fluids.
D: Okay, so it's both solids and fluids.
P: Mm.
D: Okay. Have you noticed any swelling in her neck area or redness or swelling in her throat?
P: Yeah, I've noticed some of that.
D: Okay, do you see a lot of redness in there?
P: I see. Yeah, I see quite a bit of redness in there.
D: Okay, and has she been drooling at all?
P: Yeah, she. A little bit today.
D: Okay. All right. Any coughing?
P: Not that I noticed. No coughing.
D: Okay, and do you notice that she's increasingly fatigued or just not herself, or is she irritable?
P: Yeah, she's very irritable.
D: Okay, do you notice any kind of paleness or blueness in her skin, anything like that?
P: She's not blue. She's looking a little pale, though.
D: Okay. And so. Sorry, when did the shortness of breath start? Is it getting worse at all?
P: The shortness of breath started yesterday as well, more so today, which is why I brought her in.
D: Okay, any other symptoms like nausea or vomiting or diarrhea or constipation?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay, and how's her appetite and sleep?
P: It's been. Not great. She's not eating well, I guess because she's in a lot of pain and she didn't sleep well for the past two nights either.
D: Okay, has she had any recent infections at all, like a cold or anything like that?
P: She did have a cold two weeks ago, yeah.
D: Okay, and did it just go away on its own or did she need any antibiotics or any other medications?
P: I think she. No, she didn't need any antibiotics. It kind of went away on its own.
D: Okay. Any sick contacts within the last week or two weeks?
P: I mean, she goes to daycare, so she might have picked something up from there. Yeah, last I checked, no one at daycare was sick, like, right now, but three weeks ago, there was someone who was sick.
D: Okay. Any past medical history?
P: No. She's been pretty healthy otherwise.
D: Any issues during pregnancy or after birth at all?
P: No.
D: Okay. And are her immunizations all up to date?
P: Yes. She didn't get the H flu vaccine, though.
D: Okay. Okay. Any hospitalizations or anything like that in the past?
P: No.
D: Okay. And any family history of any medical conditions?
P: No.
D: And currently, who does she live with at home?
P: She lives with myself, as well as her older brother.
D: Okay. All right. So, yeah, those are all the questions that I have. I do think this is, like, an urgent matter because as she has not been vaccinated with the H flu vaccine, and some of the symptoms that she's displaying, like the drooling and trouble swallowing and now especially the shortness of breath, are very concerning. So I really think you should go to the emergency department. I'll give them a call to let them know that you're coming.
P: Yeah.
D: And what they'll most likely do there is get a test done to see if she has the H flu. And also they might do perhaps like, a Covid swab as well, and they might get an X ray of her neck as well to see if so. So what I think might be going on is with H flu, you can get swelling of your epiglottis and it can kind of obstruct your throat, and it's a very urgent matter. So that's why we'll make sure you get to the ER and we'll go from there. Does that sound. I know it's maybe very worrying right now. Do you have any questions at all?
P: Yeah. Do you? So how long will she have to be in the hospital?
D: So right now we just need to make sure that she's stable, like all her vitals. You know, when she gets to the er, they can give her the appropriate antibiotics as well. And based on that, we need to make sure her breathing gets stabilized. So she might be in the ER for one day. If they think she needs to be on a higher, like, more antibiotics in the hospital, she might be in the hospital for a few more days or even a week. So it's really hard to say right now, but our priority right now is to make sure she's stabilized in the er.
P: Okay. Okay. Yeah, that sounds good.
D: I'll give them a call right now, and you can head over to the ER or if you need a ride, arrange. We can do that for you, too.
P: Okay, great. That sounds great. Thank you.
D: All right.
P: You, too.
