D: How may I help you today?
P: I'm just bringing in my son today because he's been having these episodes where he gets help, his coughing fit and become wheezy and become short of breath. And after a period of time, it goes away. But it's been happening every so often.
D: Does he still have these symptoms?
P: Like, right now he's okay. And, like, when the symptoms come on, they last for, I don't know, maybe 30 minutes, 60 minutes or even less. But yeah, it happens maybe once or twice a week. Where. And it's been going on for a couple of months now? Yeah, he actually had a viral infection like, a few months ago, and I thought it was just that, and it cleared up, and then he's just had a few more of these episodes without those kind of symptoms.
D: So all this started a couple months ago. Do you find that there? And you mentioned that it happens about one to two times a week. Is there anything specific happening at that time? Any triggers that result in these symptoms?
P: Well, I will say I think exercise, I find. Yeah, like soccer practice. Yeah. After, maybe. Or even during a game, like when things are really intense. Yeah, I think during soccer, I've kind of noticed it. And then at nighttime as well, kind of randomly, he'll have this cough.
D: Okay, so I guess it's. Do you feel that it's affected by cold weather as well, or no?
P: Maybe. Yeah. Like, if he. Yeah, completely in the wintertime, Like, I know when he goes outside, if he takes, like, a deep breath or something like that, he'll talk about having shortness of breath or difficulty breathing in the cold weather.
D: Okay. Other than the anechastic cough, is he coughing up anything or is it kind of a dry cough?
P: It's dry.
D: Okay. Does he have any, like, chest pain during these episodes?
P: No, he hasn't said anything like that.
D: Okay. All right. Any fevers?
P: No, he had a little bit of a fever at the. That one time a few months ago, but he has, so. That's right. I think he had some sort of illness then. But he hasn't had any fevers.
D: I see. Okay. Any headaches?
P: No, he hasn't said anything like that.
D: Okay. And has he had any other symptoms? So anything like racing heart or belly pain or muscle aches or any changes in his bowel movements or urinary symptoms?
P: I know. I haven't heard him complain of anything like that. I think everything like that's been normal.
D: Okay, so when he has these episodes, how severe are they? So how difficult is it for him to breathe?
P: Well, certainly when it first starts, I mean, for the first minute or two, I think, particularly at soccer practice, he'll have a really hard time catching his breath. But when he stops playing and rests and really tries to make sure that he is, I don't know, just trying to breathe, and he kind of goes away. He's been able to manage it. Okay.
D: Okay. All right. And have these symptoms that have interfered with his daily activities. Does he, for instance, try to avoid soccer practice or does he have difficulties falling asleep at night?
P: Yeah, it definitely wakes him up every once in a while at night, and he does have to take it a little easier at soccer, for sure. So, yeah, I am thinking it's affecting him.
D: Okay. And otherwise, has he been. Has he had any medical conditions that he's been diagnosed with?
P: No. Well, he had some rashes when he was younger that he would get some creams for, but that has mostly resolved now.
D: Okay. Any hospitalizations or surgeries?
P: No, he hasn't had anything like that.
D: Okay. And just going back to his birth and your pregnancy, were there any complications at the time of pregnancy?
P: There was a prolonged labor, I think, but he was delivered vaginally at term.
D: Okay. Okay, that's great. Any.
P: Oh, sorry. I was just going to say normal weight as well.
D: Okay, good. Was he kept in the NICU for a couple days after, or was he sent home?
P: I think that, like, he was kept for. Not in the nicu. I don't know. He was kept for one day, I think, to just monitor for infection because it was like prolonged labor, but he was okay. So, yeah, we were able to go home.
D: Okay. And was I gonna say what I was going to say? How has his growth and development been? Has he been seeing his doctor regularly? Any concerns there?
P: Yeah, he's been good with growth. No concerns for that. And his development has been normal as well. He saw his milestones.
D: Okay. Is he going to school?
P: Yeah, yeah, he's been going to school. He hasn't really. He hasn't missed. Well, he's missed one or two days, actually, because of the cough. Like, on nights that he just didn't sleep well, so in the morning he's just. Well, not. Not feeling good after school. So he has missed a couple of days over the last few months.
D: Okay. And does he. Is there any. Are there any conditions that run in the family, including things like asthma or eczema or allergic rhinitis or allergies?
P: Yeah, his sister does have some bad allergies. Her nose runs all the time, and she also has asthma. His sister uses a Daily inhaler and then also a blue one.
D: I see. Okay. And how are things at home? Is he doing well otherwise, like at school and things like that? Any stressors in his life?
P: No, he's been doing. He's been doing well at school. He likes math and that's been going well.
D: Okay, great. Has he ever tried any buffers?
P: No, he hasn't actually.
D: Okay. Has he been on any medications.
P: He has?
D: Not any allergies that he has?
P: Not that I'm aware of, but I think he might. I mean, like environmental or. I don't know, something. He does get symptoms like a runny nose and itchy eyes sometimes, but usually go away pretty, pretty quickly and he doesn't fuss about it too much, so. Yeah.
D: So from the sentence that you've described so far, it sounds like he might also have asthma. But we would obviously have to do some testing and confirm that. And also given sort of the results or even just like given the symptoms, prescribed some buffers to help with those symptoms. Clearly it's affecting his life. He can't go to school or can't participate in soccer, sometimes wakes up in the middle of the night and that's not good. So we can maybe prescribe some buffers and see if those help and also get some testing done. Do you have any other questions for me?
P: Yeah, I was just wondering about. So like the wheezing and all of that could be with. From asthma too?
D: Yeah, I would think so. But again, we'll like get the testing done and see if there are any other end. Any other causes.
P: Okay.
D: You said that the wheezing sort of lasts only 30 to 30 minutes to an hour and then gets better.
P: Yeah, I don't notice that any other times.
D: Yeah, it's possibly. I mean, I would think it's asthma, but then we'll get the testing done and see.
P: Okay, great. Thank you.
D: You're welcome.
