D: What brings you in here today?
P: Hi, Tisha. Yeah, so over this past five days, I've had worsening shortness of breath and some discomfort in my chest and this cough that's been getting worse as well.
D: Okay, so it's just been for the past week or five days?
P: Yeah, I mean, I've had a cough and in the past and shortness of breath in the past, but yeah, just over these past five days, it's been there at all? Like, it's been there all day and it's been getting worse as well.
D: Okay, and what is the cough like? Is it wet or dry?
P: Yeah, I'm bringing up sputum pretty much, like, every time I'm coughing up. Bringing up some yellowish or greenish sputum.
D: Okay, and have you noticed at all any blood?
P: No, no, no blood.
D: No blood. Okay, and how much sputum are you bringing up, like, every time you cough?
P: I would say it would be the. Just a little inside of my palm each time.
D: Okay, and is this. And then what about the shortness of breath? Is it. Are you having trouble taking deep breaths or do you find yourself breathing faster? Like, how would you describe it?
P: It's. Yeah, I just. I'm really feeling like I just can't catch my breath. Even with some small things around the apartment that normally I can do. It's any type of exertion. I just can't catch my breath. I'm okay right now. Just sitting here, though.
D: Okay. Yeah. So at rest you're fine, but, like, when you exert yourself, it gets worse.
P: Yeah. Well, I still have this, like, chest discomfort, though, while sitting here. It doesn't feel like my breathing is normal.
D: Okay, and when do you get that chest discomfort? Is it when you're breathing in or breathing out? Or can it be just due to exercise?
P: It's kind of just. It's just kind of been there over these past, like, four or five days.
D: Okay, and how would you describe. Is it pain at all? Is it like knee, sharp, stabbing or pressure, like pain?
P: No, nothing like that. I kind of. I just feel congested, I guess.
D: Okay, so just discomfort. Do your symptoms get worse at all when you're laying down flat?
P: No.
D: Okay. Do you wake up at night gasping for air?
P: No, I haven't done that before.
D: Okay, have you had any fevers or chills?
P: Yeah, now that you mentioned, I do think I feel a bit feverish.
D: And I.
P: And I've noticed that actually, over the last couple of days, have you had.
D: A chance to take your temperature at all?
P: No, I just felt Feverish.
D: Okay. Do you have any other symptoms like sore throat, runny nose, anything like that?
P: No, I don't.
D: Okay. Have you traveled at all recently?
P: No, I've been home.
D: Okay, have you tried anything to help you with your symptoms?
P: Yeah, I did try using an inhaler. I have a couple of those. And, um, usually that, that helps, but hasn't really been able to help much this time.
D: Okay. How often are you having to use it so?
P: Well, I used it. I took three or four puffs this morning and. And that was about it. I was using it last night as well, but typically I'll use it maybe two or three times a week.
D: Okay. Have you had any headaches or changes in your vision or anything like that?
P: No, I haven't noticed anything like that.
D: Okay. Any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Any increased fatigue?
P: I mean, I haven't been able to do as much with being so short of breath, but my energy has been. Okay.
D: Okay, and how about. Do you have any sensation of palpitations or your heart is racing at all?
P: No, I haven't felt anything like that.
D: Okay. And any kind of diarrhea or constipation?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any issues with urination?
P: No problems there.
D: Any changes in your sleep or appetite?
P: No, that's been pretty good.
D: Okay. Any night sweats?
P: No, I haven't had any night sweats.
D: Okay. Any kind of significant weight change recently?
P: I might have. I think my weight's been about the same.
D: Okay. Any exposure to anyone sick around you recently?
P: No, I don't think so, but I've had a couple of chest colds over the last year that I needed antibiotics for it and they went away after that. I got those from a walk in clinic.
D: Sorry, you got antibiotics from a walk in clinic?
P: Yeah, the last time was probably about four months ago.
D: Okay.
P: So I haven't been around anybody sick recently, but. But I mean, I've had similar symptoms before. I feel like this time might be just a bit worse, though.
D: Okay, and do you have any past medical history, any conditions you've been diagnosed with?
P: Yeah, so I haven't been diagnosed with COPD as well as high blood pressure and gerd.
D: Okay, and when were you diagnosed with copd?
P: About three years ago.
D: Three years ago. Okay. Do you take any medications for any of these conditions?
P: Yeah, so I have a medication, Ventolin. I take Simicort daily, which is like a steroid type medication, and then I take an ACE inhibitor, I think for blood pressure and just TUMS or something like that if my reflux is bad.
D: Okay. And do you have any allergies to any medications?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any past hospitalizations or surgeries?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any family history of any medical conditions, any lung or heart conditions?
P: Nothing like that? No.
D: Okay. And any cancers in the family?
P: No.
D: Okay. And any currently? Right now, what's your living situation like?
P: Yeah, so I'm living with. With just my daughter in an apartment.
D: And currently, do you work?
P: Yeah, so I've been working. At the. At the grocery store? Yeah, at the grocery store.
D: Okay. And do you smoke currently?
P: I do, Yeah. I smoke about a pack a day, and I've smoked for now probably like 30 or 40 years. I used to smoke more.
D: Okay, but you have cut down. That's good. Yeah, definitely the more you cut down and you need to talk about quitting. There's a lot of resources that we can go through. Do you use anything else besides cigarettes, like any marijuana or any other drugs?
P: No, just cigarettes.
D: Okay. And any alcohol?
P: Yeah, I mean, I'll have some wine with dinner on the weekends, but that's about it.
D: Okay. All right. So those are all the questions I had for you. Do you have any questions?
P: No, that was about it. I was wondering if you think I have an infection or is this COPD acting up or what's going on?
D: Yeah. So definitely with your history of copd and these symptoms can just be an exacerbation of your copd, and that can happen sometimes when you have COPD and then you get a. Either viral or bacterial infection, and that makes your symptoms worse. And you've also had a fever, so we'll do like, a full physical examination, get your vitals, everything, but. And then we'll give you some, like, nebulized your home puffers, too, but all just in the hospital and monitor your response to them. And then we'll also get, like, your. Some of your blood work and chest X ray, just to see if there's any, like, pneumonia. And lastly, will this get, like, a Covid swab done, since some of these symptoms also overlap with COVID symptoms and. Yeah, so we'll. So that's what we'll do. And I'll let the emergency department know that you're on your way. You'll need to get all those tests there, and then they'll decide whether or not you need any kind of admission or you can just go home on antibiotics from there. Okay.
P: Okay, that sounds good.
D: Thank you. Yeah. Yeah. All right, take care. Bye.
