D: But to start, could you tell me a little bit about what brought you in today?
P: Really, I just don't. I don't feel quite right. Like, I've had this pain in my chest for five days now, and I've been just feeling kind of out of breath.
D: Okay, where are you feeling this pain?
P: It's kind of on the left side of my chest, and it's just like a tiny. It's like a lingering, sharp pain. I don't really feel it anywhere else. It's just kind of there all the time right now. I've never had anything like this before.
D: Okay, so you're not feeling the pain radiate to any other locations, you're just feeling it sort of in the one spot on the left side?
P: Yeah. Yeah, exactly.
D: Okay. And since this pain started five days ago, has it gotten any better, any worse? Stayed the same.
P: Like, when it started, I was just. I was just, like, sitting on my couch. And now it's harder if I'm. It's worse if I'm walking around. Like, if I walk just down the street to get the mail, but otherwise it's kind of. Kind of just there. Like, I took some Tylenol and Advil, and they maybe take the edge off a little bit, but it's always there. And it's worse when I. When I take a deep breath than I really feel it.
D: Okay, so it's worse. Is the pain worse when you're walking as well? Like, to get the mail?
P: It's. I don't. The pain is. But I can't catch my breath when I'm doing that.
D: Okay, and how far could you, like, usually walk or.
P: Yeah, usually walk before I go for long walks. Like, every day. Like, probably like five kilometers or something.
D: Okay, so prior to this happening, you were feeling.
P: Well, yeah, totally. I've not ever had any problems with my heart or lungs or anything. I thought it was maybe just, like, a chest infection, but I don't know anymore.
D: Okay, so you've had the difficulties breathing and the pain, and have you had any other symptoms?
P: I think it's just those. The two things that I said.
D: Okay, so have you been experiencing any fevers or chills?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay, how about any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Okay, and how has your energy been? Have you been experiencing any significant fatigue?
P: Not well. I mean, I've been doing less stuff because it's harder to breathe. Like, I'm getting kind of like I can't catch my breath. So I guess maybe. Maybe a little bit, like fatigue.
D: I see okay, but feeling fine energy wise prior to that to five days ago?
P: Yeah, totally.
D: Okay. And have you been having any night sweats?
P: No, no, I haven't.
D: Okay, how about any unusual headaches?
P: No.
D: All right, have you felt as though your heart is racing or beating out of your chest at all?
P: No, no, it's just that, like sharp. That sharp pain.
D: Okay. Have you had any episodes of lightheadedness or feeling like you might faint?
P: No, no, it's just the difficulty breathing that scares me. But it hasn't been like that.
D: Okay, have you had a cough?
P: No. No. That's the thing that's seems weird, right?
D: Okay. Sometimes things can be associated with a cough. So we'll absolutely look into what the causes of your symptoms are today. But you haven't brought up any blood or any sputum?
P: No, no.
D: Okay, and have you had any wheezing with your breath?
P: I don't. I don't think so.
D: All right, and how about any abdominal pain?
P: No. I mean, the pain is like. Yeah, it's in my chest. Yeah, that's not in my. It's not in my belly at all.
D: Okay, and have you had any urinary problems?
P: No. I mean, so I had. I had a hysterectomy few weeks ago. Maybe like, maybe like a month ago now. So after that I was, you know, feeling a little like I was kind of not drinking as much and that. So I wasn't peeing as much then, but I think it's normal now.
D: Okay, and how have you recovered since the hysterectomy? Were you like bed bound for quite a while afterwards or were you up at Active?
P: It was not really long that I. Maybe a few days. I wasn't walking as much, but I thought I was like back to my normal self.
D: Okay, well, that's good. I'm glad that you recovered from that surgery quickly. And what was the surgery for?
P: I mean, I'm done having kids and I was just having really heavy periods still, so, you know, a lot of pain there. So that's why I had a hysterectomy.
D: Okay, and have you had any bowel problems?
P: No. No.
D: Okay, how about any skin changes or rashes?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any joint pains or leg pains or muscle pains?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: Okay, so in regards to past health, any previous medical diagnoses?
P: No, just like I had the hysterectomy, but I don't take any medications. I don't have high blood pressure or anything.
D: Okay, so no prescription medications or over the counter medications? You Take regularly, Like supplements or.
P: No, just those, like the Advil and the Tylenol I was taking for the pain.
D: Okay. And any other surgeries besides the hysterectomy?
P: Like, I had my wisdom teed out when I. It's like a teenage. That's it, though.
D: Okay, and how about any allergies?
P: None.
D: Okay. And are your immunizations up to date?
P: I think so. Yeah. Yeah. I don't. Yeah, I don't think I. I didn't get anything that was supposed to.
D: Okay, that's good. And has anybody in your family experienced anything like this before?
P: My mom had a heart attack when she was, like, in her 70s. Other than that, I don't know. I don't think so.
D: Okay. Any cancers in the family or bleeding disorders or coagulation disorders?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: Okay. So I haven't heard of anybody in the family having, like, a blood clot or a thrombosis anywhere.
P: Like, my mom's, like, cousin, but no one, like, not like my parents or anything.
D: Okay, so the next few questions, I just wanted to ask you about your personal and kind of lifestyle habits a little bit. But first, could you tell me about your living situation?
P: Yeah, I live, like I said, like, I'm done having kids, but I have two. Two kids. They're teenagers. I live with them and my husband, and we live not far from here.
D: Okay, and what do you do for work?
P: I'm an accountant.
D: Okay, and do you drink alcohol?
P: Maybe a glass of wine on, like, the weekends, but not other than that.
D: Okay, and do you smoke cigarettes?
P: I do. I'm trying to stop. I smoke maybe like, I don't know, like five per day or something at this point.
D: Okay, but it sounds like you've been working on cutting down, which is great. Have you used any other recreational drugs?
P: No. No. I mean, when I was, like, younger, I sometimes, like, would use marijuana, but I haven't really recently.
D: Okay, and have you been any. Been on any, like, long trips recently?
P: No, I would.
D: Fair enough. Vacation would be great. Okay. So that was all the questions that I wanted to ask. On history, we're getting run some investigations. I'm concerned that you might have a pulmonary embolism. And so we're going to do some lab work and imaging to investigate that.
P: Okay. Yeah. Is that scary? Is that bad?
D: It can vary from being mild to severe. And so that's what we want to get some of the imaging and lab work to see. Well, to first confirm if that's what you actually have, and if so, offer the right treatment.
P: Okay. Thanks, Doctor.
D: You're welcome. We'll get that started.
