D: What brings you in?
P: Yeah, nice to meet you. I've been having, just over the last week, a cough that's been getting worse. And I had a fever a couple nights. And just yesterday, I noticed that I started having lots of taste and smell, so that got me really worried.
D: Okay, so, yeah, let's rewind a little bit. The cough? Yeah, you said started a couple of weeks ago. So would that be about two weeks, three weeks?
P: I would say last week. So like seven. Seven days ago.
D: Seven days ago. Okay, so that started seven days ago. And then when did the fever start?
P: The fever hasn't been constant, but I've, like, had some nights where I just feel really chilly. And then during the day, sometimes I'm getting these chills. I haven't recorded a temperature, but I think I've had a fever at least three times in the last week.
D: Okay, so you haven't actually taken your temperature, but you just feel like you have chills?
P: Yeah.
D: Okay, we could take your temperature today. And then the loss of smell and taste, did they both happen at the same time?
P: I think the taste happened, like, before, but that was just yesterday. And then yesterday morning, like, at breakfast, I couldn't really taste anything. And then continued during lunch and dinner. But smell I kind of lost around the evening. Okay. Yeah, it all just started yesterday.
D: Okay. All right, so let's go back to the cough. Has it been constant since it started?
P: Yeah, it's been pretty constant. It's been getting worse, especially, like, in the last few days. I'm mainly coughing. Like, before, I was coughing mainly at night, but now I'm coughing throughout the day.
D: Okay. So, yeah, you mentioned possibly a trigger would be, like, time of day at night, or did you notice any other triggers, like, you know, the cold air or dust or anything at home that could be potentially triggering your cough?
P: No, not really. Like, I've lived in the same place for a while. No new changes, and I've been barely going outside, so I don't think there are any triggers.
D: Okay, and in terms of the quality of your cough, is it. Would you say it's harsh? Barky?
P: I would just say it's, like, kind of harsh at times, but mainly it's a dry cough. Like, I'm not bringing anything up.
D: Okay. Okay. And then you said dry cough, so no sputum or blood, right?
P: No.
D: Okay. Have you ever experienced anything like this in the past?
P: Not the loss of taste and smell, but, like, the other stuff when I just had a cold or flu, like, symptoms previously. But the taste and smell is Something completely new.
D: Okay. And then have you experienced any shortness of breath?
P: Not really. No.
D: No. Okay, how about wheeziness?
P: No.
D: Chest pain?
P: No chest pain.
D: Okay. Experienced any weight loss recently?
P: No, not that I know of.
D: Okay, how about fatigue?
P: I have been a bit tired in the last few days, so with the fevers at night, in the morning just feeling a little bit crummy. Just not really energetic to do anything.
D: Yeah, for sure.
P: Just been kind of just sitting on the couch.
D: Okay. Any changes to your hair, nails or skin, like rashes?
P: No, I haven't noticed anything like that.
D: Okay, you mentioned loss of smell. Do you have a runny nose or a stuffy nose?
P: I did have a runny nose earlier this week, but that's kind of subsided. Other than that, I don't really feel too much congestion. I've been taking Tylenol, the Tylenol cold, so I don't know if that helped.
D: Okay. How often are you taking the Tylenol cold?
P: I just took it like for four days just before going to sleep.
D: Oh, I see. Okay. Okay. And do you have a sore throat?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. How about any changes to your vision or hearing?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Any pain or discharge in the eyes or ears?
P: No.
D: Okay. Do you ever feel like your heart's racing?
P: No, not really.
D: No. Okay. Any swelling in your limbs?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: Okay. Any dizziness or fainting spells? No. Okay. Confusion or memory loss?
P: No, not that I can tell.
D: Okay. Any changes in your bowel habits like constipation or diarrhea?
P: No, not really.
D: No. No blood in the stool, right?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any changes to your appetite?
P: Just maybe like a little bit. With the loss of smell and taste, food is not really the same in the last few days.
D: Yeah. Yeah, that makes sense. Any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. And any changes in terms of urine?
P: No, I've been peeing. All right.
D: Okay, good. Any major or long standing medical conditions or are you otherwise healthy?
P: No, I've been fortunate otherwise healthy. I had asthma as a kid, but like, I haven't had to use the puffers for more than a decade.
D: Oh, okay. Okay. And what triggers your asthma?
P: I think back then it was just when I did sports and I was running around a lot. I've been fine for the last ten years at least.
D: Okay. Okay, that's good. And any surgeries or hospitalizations in the past?
P: No, no.
D: Okay. Are you on any medications.
P: Currently? Just. I was taking Tylenol cold, but other than that, no other medications.
D: Okay. Not even other over the Counter medications or herbal supplements?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Do you have any allergies?
P: Sometimes in the fall. Like, I get a bit smaller, but other than that, I don't know if any allergies to any foods or medications.
D: Okay. How about immunizations? Are you up to date?
P: Yeah, they're all up to date.
D: Okay. Any lung conditions or heart conditions that run in the family?
P: My father did recently have a heart attack at the age of 58. I think he was. He's fine, though, but that's about it.
D: Okay. Any cancers that run in the family?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: Okay. And do you smoke?
P: Yeah. Yeah, I do.
D: Okay. How much do you smoke?
P: Probably. I would say a pack a day.
D: Pack a day. Okay. For how long?
P: And probably since. In my 20s, so at least 10 years now.
D: Okay. Have you ever thought about cutting down?
P: Yeah. Especially with this pandemic going on. It's been. I've been trying to cut down just because, like, I don't want to get the. Get Covid. And then, you know, my lungs are probably already weaker because of the smoking, so I've been trying to cut down.
D: Yeah, for sure. It's good that you're trying to cut down. We have resources to help you if you ever need them. Do you do marijuana?
P: No. No, I've never tried marijuana.
D: Okay. How about other recreational drugs?
P: No. Besides alcohol, nothing else.
D: Okay. And then I guess I'll ask you about alcohol. How much do you drink?
P: Not that much. I'd probably say, like, a few times a week. When there's a game on, I just grab a couple beers, but that's about it.
D: Okay. And where do you live? Right now?
P: Yeah. So I just live just outside of London with my wife and daughter in a small townhouse.
D: Okay. Anyone else at home sick?
P: No. I've kind of stayed away. Once I noticed some symptoms. I'm just kind of staying in my room, not getting out. I don't want to make any of my family sick.
D: Yeah, that makes sense. And have you traveled to anywhere recently?
P: No, I haven't really traveled. I do. I do go to work, though I haven't. In the last week, I've told them that I've been having these symptoms, but other than that, no traveling.
D: Okay. Okay. That's good. Those were all the questions I had for you today. Was there anything that you wanted to ask me or anything else that you wanted to discuss that I may have missed?
P: Yeah, I'm just wondering, like, could it be Covid? I don't know if someone in the office had it or. Yeah, I was just basically worried about if I had Covid.
D: Yeah, for sure. That's definitely something that we need to rule out. So we will be doing a Covid swab on you, and you will hear back in about 24 to 48 hours with the results. But regardless, because your symptoms overlap with symptoms of COVID especially the loss of smell and taste, we do recommend that you isolate for 14 days, and that includes trying to isolate from family members as well. So that's where we'll start. If it's not Covid, it could be another viral illness that's going around at this time of year. But we'll start with these Covid swabs. How does that sound?
P: Yeah, that sounds good. I'll let my work know, and hopefully it comes back negative, but I'll stay away from everyone till then.
D: Okay, sounds great. Thank you.
P: All right, thank you so much.
