D: How may I help you?
P: So, yeah, I've been having for the last two days. It just started randomly. I had to miss work. Just a headache started at the beginning, and then I noticed the same day. So this was two days ago. A headache started and my body just started aching throughout the day. And yesterday I just developed. I think it was a fever. I didn't really get a chance to check, but I was just very chilly yesterday, and now I have this cough as well.
D: Okay, so just to confirm. So that the symptoms that first started were the headache and fatigue, and that started two days ago? Yeah.
P: Like with fatigue, like, also just my muscles were aching. Okay.
D: And any particular muscles that were achy or is this more of a general kind of whole body feeling?
P: It's a general whole body feeling.
D: Okay, and in terms of the headache, could you describe. Could you describe the headache?
P: Yes, it's just kind of like at the front, like near my forehead, on kind of like both sides more. It just feels like, like pressure in there. Okay.
D: Have you had headaches like this before?
P: No, not really.
D: Okay, Is the headache on one side or the other or on both sides?
P: I think it's like both sides.
D: And is the headache like pulsating or is it more continuous, kind of constant pain?
P: I think it's more continuous, constant. All right.
D: And have you had any sensitivity to light or sound that's made the headache a lot worse?
P: No, it's kind of just there. It's about the same as when it was. When it started.
D: Okay, have you had any nausea and vomiting associated with the headache or anything else?
P: No.
D: Okay, and so, and then last question for the headache piece. Does it feel like it was like kind of sudden onset, worst headache of your life sensation?
P: No, it's still like. Like I can still cope with it. Like, if. If I wanted to, I would have gone into work, but it was the muscle aches that really started bothering me.
D: Okay, and so you had a cough as well. When did this start? And is it a dry or wet cough?
P: It's a dry cough. And it started yesterday, probably in the morning when I woke up.
D: Okay. And as the cough been getting any better or worse.
P: Since yesterday, I would say it's probably a bit worse now.
D: All right. And it's dry. But have you seen any blood that's come up?
P: No. No, no blood.
D: And have you had any shortness of breath?
P: No.
D: Okay. And have you had any flu, like, symptoms or infectious symptoms like red eyes, runny eyes, runny nose, or a sore throat?
P: No, I don't have Any of those symptoms?
D: Okay, you mentioned you felt feverish. Do you feel hot now?
P: Not right now, but I did have. Last night just. Was just very chilly and I had to just wrap myself in a couple blankets.
D: Okay. Did you have any night sweats?
P: No, I didn't have any night sweats.
D: All right, and have you had any chest pain?
P: No chest pain.
D: All right, and how about any dizziness or lightheadedness?
P: Nope.
D: Okay, and have you had any wheeze?
P: No wheezing. Okay.
D: And have you noticed any swelling to any of your extremities?
P: Okay.
D: And have you had any belly pain?
P: No belly pain.
D: Any urinary problems like pain or frequency.
P: Going to the bathroom? No.
D: And any diarrhea?
P: No diarrhea.
D: All right, have you noticed any rashes or changes to your skin?
P: No, not at all.
D: All right, and you've had muscle aches. Have you had any joint pains?
P: No, no muscle. Sorry. No joint pain. It's mainly just like in. I would say in around my upper back, like my upper arms and kind of like my thighs and glutes areas.
D: Okay. And how has your energy been these last couple of days?
P: Yesterday felt a bit drained. I just kind of like stayed in bed the whole day.
D: Okay, and have you tried any medications for the.
P: That.
D: For the headache or any of your symptoms so far?
P: I took a Tylenol. Actually took a couple Tylenols when the headache and pain started. It did help a bit for a couple hours, but it just kind of came back. Okay.
D: And in the past, have you been diagnosed with any medical conditions?
P: Just like I have type 2 diabetes. That's it. Okay.
D: And are you using medications for your diabetes?
P: Yeah, I've been on metformin.
D: Okay. Have you used insulin before?
P: No, no, I've never had to use insulin. It's pretty stable. Like, my family doctor is even considering taking me off the Metformin.
D: Okay. No, that's great. And that reminds me, actually, how has your weight been over the last several months? Have you had any weight changes?
P: Not really. Like, I think over the last two years, I've just been very focused on my fitness. So I feel like I've probably lost around 30 pounds over the last year. Last one to. Yeah, year. But, like, I've been exercising a lot, like gym every day. It's. It's been. It's been a journey.
D: No, that's great, though. Good for you. I encourage you to keep that up. For sure. Okay. And so do you take any other medications either over the counter or prescribed?
P: Just the multivitamins.
D: All Right. And do you have any allergies to medications?
P: No, not that I know of.
D: All right, have you had any hospitalizations or surgeries?
P: No. All right.
D: And anybody in the family have any, like, lung conditions, heart conditions or diseases that run in the family?
P: My son actually just recently was diagnosed with asthma, but I think that he gets that from his mom's side. Okay.
D: You don't have any asthma or problems breathing like that?
P: No, nothing like that. Okay.
D: And right now. So you mentioned your son and wife. Is that who you're living with?
P: Yeah, it's just us three. Okay. And.
D: Any exposures to anybody who's been sick either at home or at work or any other activities?
P: Unfortunately, I do have to. I'm one of the unlucky ones that still has to go into work and. Yeah, it's hard to say. Like, at work there are times when we, like at lunch we eat like without a mask. I don't know if I didn't notice anyone having any symptoms, but like, I don't know if someone, you know, who knows where anyone has been.
D: Yeah, but there's nobody yet you're aware of who's been sick though?
P: No.
D: And everybody at home has been okay?
P: Yeah, at home, everyone's good. I've kind of just distanced myself into like one room just in case anything goes wrong.
D: Okay, and have you traveled anywhere?
P: No, we've been. We've been at home this whole time.
D: Okay. And do you smoke cigarettes?
P: No, I have never smoked.
D: Okay. Do you smoke marijuana?
P: No.
D: All right, and do you use any other recreational drugs like cocaine, opioids, heroin, any. And have you used anything like that in the past?
P: No, never.
D: Okay. And do you drink alcohol?
P: Yeah, just occasionally. Like I would say maybe maybe some wine once or like once every couple days, maybe a beer on the weekend, but that's it.
D: All right, so I think that was all I wanted to ask on history today. Was there anything else that you wanted to add before we go on to the exam and.
P: Yeah, so I. I don't know if I should get a test done, like for Covid. Yeah, that's all. I was just wondering if I can do that here.
D: Yeah, so that is something that is on the differential for what could be causing your symptoms, especially with starting having a cough and the non specific viral type symptoms with. Yeah, cough, headache, muscle aches. So certainly could be caused by Covid. But there are other reasons for that could explain these symptoms, such as other type of viral illnesses. And so we will do a PCR swab today as well, as do. We'll check your vitals to see if you have a fever now, and we'll also maybe send an influenza swab as well and do some blood work. But in the meantime, since we're running the COVID swab, it'll be important to self isolate for the next 14 days. And we will let you know what the test results show. But despite even if they are negative, it will be important to still stay self isolating for the next 14 days.
P: Okay, I'll do that. That sounds good.
D: All right.
P: Thank you. Thank you.
