D: What brings you in today?
P: Yeah, so I just came in because I've been having, for the last, I would say, two weeks, just a lot of congestion in my nose. And then I've also been feeling a lot of pressure in my head as well as just around my jaws and my face overall.
D: Okay, and you said it started two weeks ago. Has it gotten better, worse, or been the same since then?
P: I'd say it's pretty much been the same except, like, the pressure is getting worse.
D: Okay. And do you find that the pressure is worse when you're bending down or. Yeah, when you're, like, squatting or sitting down?
P: When I'm sitting down, I don't think so. But, like, sometimes I do feel like, for example, when I'm lying on one side, it gets really bad on that one side, and then I have to kind of switch over to the other side.
D: Oh, okay. All right. And when did your headache start?
P: It's. I guess it's not so much as of a headache as just kind of just pain in and around the cheeks and just going up to my head. And it started, I would say, around two weeks ago.
D: And do you have a stuffy nose?
P: Yeah, I definitely have a stuffy nose. And it started. It sometimes gets, like, a runny nose as well?
D: Yep. Okay. And what's the discharge like?
P: It's usually clear. Okay.
D: And do you have a cough?
P: No, no coughs?
D: Sore throat?
P: No.
D: And do you have any difficulties breathing?
P: No, not that I've noticed. Sometimes when it gets really stuffy, I. I have to breathe from my mouth.
D: Yeah, I see. Do you have any difficulty swallowing?
P: No.
D: Any chest pain or any heart palpitations?
P: Nope.
D: Any pain in your belly?
P: Nope.
D: Nausea or vomiting?
P: Nope.
D: Changes in your bowel movement?
P: Nope.
D: Any urinary symptoms?
P: Nope.
D: Any muscle aches?
P: Nope.
D: Any fevers or chills?
P: No, not that I've noticed.
D: Any changes in your weight recently?
P: No, no changes.
D: Any night sweats?
P: Nope.
D: Okay. All right. So have you had any contact with anyone who could have been sick in the past two weeks or before that?
P: No. No, I'm very, like, careful. I barely go out.
D: Good. That's very good. Have you traveled anywhere outside the province?
P: No.
D: Okay. And do you currently work?
P: I work from home right now. I'm an accountant.
D: Okay. And do you live with anyone else or do you live with them?
P: So I live with my family. I live with my husband and two daughters.
D: Have any of them been sick recently?
P: No, they've been fine.
D: Okay, good. And do you smoke?
P: No, not at all.
D: Do you Smoke marijuana or consume any recreational drugs?
P: Probably the last time was in college for marijuana.
D: I see. What about alcohol?
P: Alcohol? I probably have a glass of red wine a day.
D: All right. Okay. And have you. Do you have any, I guess, carpets or curtains or any sort of animals around, anything that might cause any kind of environmental allergies?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. All right. And do you have any medical conditions that you've been diagnosed with?
P: No, I've been completely healthy.
D: Any hospitalizations or surgeries?
P: I did have a C section with both my. Both my children.
D: I see. Any complications after.
P: No complications after. They were both healthy. I didn't have to stay in the hospital.
D: Great, great. And any allergies to medications, foods, or environmental allergies? Nope, not that I know any medications, including over the counter or herbal medications.
P: I do take the Tylenol cold, and that sometimes relieves some of the pain and pressure.
D: That's good. That's good. Is there anything else that makes the pressure and the pain better?
P: I have done those, like, kind of those steam therapies that sometimes helps.
D: Okay, good, good, good. Any. Anything that makes it worse. I know that lying on one side you said makes things worse for you. Anything else that's made the pressure worse?
P: No, I would say that's about it.
D: Okay. Any changes in your sense of smell?
P: Yeah, definitely. When I get really stuffed, stuff, like, I don't really smell anything.
D: What about sense of taste?
P: Taste, I guess, like, with the smell gone, sometimes, like, the taste feels weird too, but, like, not. Not really.
D: I see. Okay. And any family history of any medical conditions?
P: My. My father did have a heart attack in his. I think it was late 50s. But he's well and alive right now, so he's fine.
D: Good. All right, well, that's all the questions I had for you. Given the symptoms that you've shared with me, it sounds like you might have something called rhinosinusitis, which is basically inflammation of the sinuses and the nasal cavity or the area inside your nose. And often it's just treated with conservative management to just continue to take Tylenol, if that seems to help you, and do the steam therapy. It will take time to get better, but if you feel that it's not getting better in the next week or so, give us a call again and we can maybe see if it's a bacterial infection and see if. If antibiotics might be needed. But oftentimes it's usually a viral infection and antibiotics are not needed. Instead of just resting and taking care of yourself and trying to manage the symptoms, that way can help. But also check your temperature here to see if you have any fevers and go from there. We'll also. I guess we'll also do a Covid swab because your symptoms do overlap with some of those symptoms. And we'd recommend that you quarantine until at least the swab results are out, and then Public health will let you know what to do. Do you have any questions for me?
P: No, that's all. Thank you so much.
D: You're welcome.
