D: So can you tell me a little bit about what brought you in here today?
P: Yeah, I've noticed I've had this pretty bad cough for, like, the last couple of days. I'm a little bit worried. Want to talk to someone?
D: Okay, so started two days ago.
P: No. About. What day is it today? Today is Wednesday. It started on Sunday. Sunday, as I noticed, it started getting really bad.
D: Okay, so it got really bad then. Was it. Was it still present but not as bad before that?
P: Yeah, I think I had, like, a bit of, like, a raspy cough on, like, Friday, but Sunday, it was when I started getting nervous about it.
D: Okay, so almost a week, it sounds like. And what exactly changed on Sunday that you made it worse, in your opinion?
P: So Sunday, I started bringing. I noticed, like, little spots of red kind of in the gunk I was bringing up.
D: Okay.
P: And I kind of ignored it. But the next day, they were still there. I started getting fever. Just didn't. I felt off, you know?
D: Okay. Okay. So that you first noticed that on Sunday, were you bringing up sputum before that and it just didn't have these spots, or did it. Did that part just stop. Start on Sunday?
P: Sputum's kind of like the gunk I've been bringing up. Yeah, it was. It's like this yellow custard. It's got, like, little spots of red on it on Sunday.
D: Okay, and before that, did you have, like, the yellow custard without red or. It all started at once.
P: All kind of started at once, to be honest.
D: Okay, sorry. I know these are tricky questions, and you said that you've had some. Can you tell me a little bit about that? When did that start?
P: So that started the Monday, really was when I first started. I never took my temperature. I just felt hot. You know, that's been going on pretty much until today.
D: Okay. Did you ever feel like you were really shaky?
P: Yeah, I've been getting the chills, especially last two days.
D: Okay, so over this time you've had this cough. Have you felt like you've had difficulty breathing?
P: Not really. I feel a little bit winded doing things I used to do, like I take the stairs up to my apartment, but I just haven't really trying to exert myself. Just been taking it easy. So I haven't really noticed being out of breath now.
D: Okay. So probably if you were to get up and do a lot of physical activity, it would feel worse.
P: Yeah, I could probably. I can still take the two stairs up to my apartment, but after that, I start to feel pretty crummy okay.
D: Is there anything else that you can think of that makes it feel worse?
P: No.
D: Okay. Has anything helped it to. To feel better at all?
P: Bringing up gunk makes it feel better for a little while.
D: Okay. So you kind of just clear it up and that feels a little bit better.
P: Yeah. I haven't been taking some Tylenol at home and that helps a little bit.
D: Okay. Have you felt a sore throat at the same time?
P: After an awful lot of coughing? Yeah, it starts to feel a little raw.
D: Okay. Have you had a runny nose?
P: Yeah, a bit of one back in the, like maybe a week ago, but that kind of gone away by now.
D: Okay. Have you felt any chest pain?
P: Yeah, yeah, I got pain kind of on the right.
D: Okay. Have you ever. Have you ever had anything like this before?
P: No, never.
D: Okay.
P: Actually, Doc, you're saying something that makes it feel worse.
D: Uh huh.
P: Taking a deep breath makes it feel pretty bad.
D: Okay. And I'm just gonna circle back to this chest pain. You said you feel it on the right side. Is it always there or is it just when you take a deep breath or is it kind of on and off?
P: It's kind of always there. It gets a little bit worse with coughing and when I take a pretty big deep breath. Yeah.
D: Okay, but if you were just laying down, not coughing. Is that pain there?
P: Yeah, yeah, especially notice over the last day.
D: Okay.
P: Kind of dull.
D: Okay. Have you had any weight loss recently?
P: No, not really.
D: Okay. Okay. Have you traveled anywhere recently?
P: Went to Sarnia about a week back for work, but.
D: Okay. Were you in contact with anyone that. That was sick?
P: Nope, just been keeping to myself mostly.
D: Okay. Okay. So in terms of your own medical history, do you have any chronic conditions that you see your family doctor for regularly?
P: Yeah, he's giving me a pill for cholesterol.
D: Okay. And do you know the names of any medications that you take?
P: Lipitor.
D: Okay. Is that the only one?
P: Yeah.
D: Okay. Have you ever had any surgeries?
P: I have my wisdom teeth out as a kid. Fifteen or so, I think.
D: Okay. Do you have any allergies?
P: No.
D: I'm just gonna ask you a few questions about your lifestyle. Do you live here in town?
P: Yep. Live here in town. Got a girlfriend, live in an apartment.
D: Okay. You live with your girlfriend?
P: Yeah.
D: Do you have any pets?
P: Cat. Yeah.
D: Do you do anything for work or are you retired?
P: Yeah, I still work. I'm a consultant for the chemical plants out west, mainly in Sarnia.
D: Okay. So have you had a lot of exposure to chemicals throughout your career?
P: No, they've always been pretty good for keeping us safe. I'm on the engineering side of things, so I don't really work too much in the plant directly, you know.
D: Okay, fair. Now, do you drink alcohol?
P: Once in a blue moon.
D: Okay. Do you smoke?
P: Yeah.
D: How much would you say that you smoke?
P: Typically about a pack a day.
D: Okay, and how long has that been going on for?
P: Geez, must have picked it up when I was 15.
D: Okay. And do you use any other substances like drugs? Yeah, cannabis or any other recreational drugs?
P: Smoke the odd joint from time to time, but haven't in years? No.
D: Okay. And do you have any family history of any respiratory illnesses?
P: Respiratory illness like lungs?
D: Yeah, exactly.
P: I think my grandpa died of lung cancer, actually. He was a pretty big smoker too, though.
D: Okay. Okay. Well, thank you for sharing all of that with me. So I'm going to go over this with the physician I'm working with, and we should be back shortly together to talk to you about the next steps.
P: Thank you kindly.
D: Hey, thanks.
