D: What brings you in?
P: So I've just. I've had some sinus problems in the past. I've had some sinus infections, and I just feel like I have one right now. And I know that, like, I know that, you know, a lot of the time I've done all the things that I've been told to do in the past. Like I've been doing like, saline rinses, and it just doesn't feel. Feel like it's helping very much right now. And when I rinse, I'm getting like this greeny, gross kind of mucus coming out, and it's just like giving me this, like, headache. It just feels crappy.
D: Yeah, I'm sorry you're feeling that way. So this runny nose. Okay. Do you have a cough at all?
P: No, I don't have a cough.
D: Any shortness of breath?
P: I don't have real shortness of breath, but it does feel congested.
D: Okay, how about wheeziness?
P: No wheeziness.
D: No wheeziness. Okay. And how about. How about like, sore throat or loss of taste?
P: So my throat's not sore in like the way that you get, like catch a sore throat, but I get a lot of post nasal drip and it makes it like stingy. So it's like, it's sore in that way. But it's not like, you know, if you have like strep throat or something.
D: Okay, how about changes in your vision or hearing?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Weight loss? No fevers or chills.
P: I took my temp last night. It was pretty high. It was like 99 point, like something. 99, like 7 or something. So my thermometer said that's high. I don't. I don't really know, but yeah.
D: Okay, and then how about like, facial pain or pressure or feeling like it's full?
P: Oh, yeah, I have that. It's like. Yeah. On the front part of my face.
D: Okay. And then you mentioned some nasal obstruction, some discharge, and you said no loss of smell, right?
P: No, I didn't lose any smell. Like, sometimes it's kind of hard to smell because it's so plugged up. Right. I still have like, I'm able to smell. Like, especially after I do the rinses. It helps a little bit.
D: Okay. How about like, chest pain?
P: No, I haven't had any chest pain.
D: No. Okay. Any issues with bowel movements or have those been normal?
P: Those have been normal.
D: Any changes in your urine?
P: No, no.
D: Any headaches?
P: Yeah, like, I get that, like sinus y headache that, you know, it's pretty common for me. Like, kind of just all in, like the front of my face and sometimes it kind of feels like it goes all over.
D: How about, how about like dizziness or fainting?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. Are you otherwise healthy or do you have any long standing medical conditions?
P: No, this is pretty well, pretty well the only thing. I've had some problems with my knee, like I had some problems with the acl. So, like, I see like an orthopedic person for that, but otherwise, Otherwise I'm healthy.
D: Okay. Okay. And are you on any medications?
P: No, Like I sometimes, like I use the saline rinse for this. I used to use the nasal steroid spray and I hadn't had an infection for a while and things were feeling okay, so I haven't been using it recently. And then I occasionally will use like, like an Advil if my knees sore.
D: Okay. Okay. And no hospitalizations or surgeries.
P: So I had an ACL repair surgery.
D: All right. Okay.
P: And like, I went to the emergency department once when I had a bad sinus infection, but I didn't like, stay over at the hospital.
D: Okay. Okay. How about immunizations? Are you up to date?
P: Yeah, I think so. I never didn't get any.
D: Okay. Any allergies?
P: Like a little bit to cats, but nothing else.
D: Okay. Family history of lung or heart conditions?
P: No, not that I know of.
D: Okay. How about smoking? Do you smoke?
P: No.
D: No, no. Okay. Do you drink alcohol?
P: I drink a few beers on the weekend.
D: Okay.
P: You know, five or six per weekend.
D: Okay. And viruses per weekend. Okay. And any recreational drugs?
P: I will occasionally take like a cannabis, like a capsule, like the oil in the capsule.
D: Okay, and what is that for?
P: Just like recreational also, like, I mean, my knee, My knee pain. Sometimes it helps.
D: Okay.
P: But like, essentially that, that might be like once, like per month or something.
D: Okay. Okay. All right. And do any sick contacts recently?
P: No, no, I've been working from home.
D: Okay. Okay. Any travel recently?
P: No, no.
D: Okay. And where do you live?
P: I live here in town with my wife and our teenage son.
D: Okay. Is anyone at home sick?
P: No, they're fine.
D: They're fine. Okay, and what about.
P: They're both working from home, like doing school from home too, so we really don't go anywhere. Like, my wife goes to get groceries and that's about it.
D: Okay, I see. And any old carpets, smoke, asbestos, mold, anything like that at home?
P: No, no, it's a pretty new house.
D: Okay. All right. Any pets at home?
P: We have a dog. It's a labradoodle.
D: Okay.
P: And that's It. Yeah.
D: How long have you had him?
P: Oh, like, he's, like, three now. Like, my. My sinus infections and that have been going on for longer than we've had him.
D: Okay. All right. Those are all the questions that I have for you. Did you have any questions of your own for me?
P: I don't think so. I just. I hope, you know, we can do something about this, because, you know, I tried all this stuff that is supposed to be, like, you know, conservative, like, the first steps, and it just does seem like it's getting better. It's been, like, a few weeks, so I thought it was probably time to come see you.
D: Yeah. Sorry. What? Have you tried at home again?
P: So I used the rinses, the saline rinses. I used a little bit of nasal decongestant, but I know, like, I know I've been told I'm not supposed to do that for more than a few days, so I don't. Yeah, that's. I think that's pretty well it. Cause I said there's not much we can really do.
D: Okay. Yeah. So your symptoms. Okay. Because some. Some of these things overlap with COVID We're gonna have to swab you, and they'll notify you of your results in, like, 24 to 48 hours. But what it sounds like is something called Sanul sinusitis, and it sounds like acute bacterial rhinosinusitis because of some of the symptoms that you have. And it's been going on for more than a week, and it's not going away with the saline rinses and these decongestants. So we will prescribe some antibiotics for you, probably amoxyset, take those for five to seven days and see if some of your symptoms clear up, if they continue to be severe. Actually, we'll also prescribe you some inhaled corticosteroids, because I think those can help as well. So we'll give you both of those for now, and then just follow up with us in a week after you've tried both things, and we'll see how your symptoms are holding up at that point. Does that sound like a good plan to you?
P: Yeah, I think that sounds fair. Yeah. Thank you.
D: Okay. Yeah, no problem.
