D: What can I do for you?
P: Hi. Yeah, so I just came in here today. I've been having just this congestion around my nose and face. Like, it's just something that just started around five days ago, and it's been getting worse, but I've started to get, like, these headaches as well as just pain around my cheeks.
D: Okay. Started about five days ago. Okay. All right. Have you. Can you tell me about your headaches?
P: Yeah, so there I started getting these headaches just two days ago, but, like, it's more than a headache. It's kind of mainly over the cheeks, and then it goes just above the nose.
D: I see.
P: And, like, kind of up into the forehead.
D: Yeah. Do you feel like it's worse when you're bending down or squatting?
P: I'm not sure, actually.
D: Okay. All right. And do you have any other symptoms? Do you have a runny nose or sore throat or a cough?
P: I don't have a cough. I don't have a sore throat. I do sometimes get a runny nose, though, like, every. Every now and then.
D: Okay.
P: In the past five days, yeah, I probably had, like. It's usually in the morning. I sometimes get a runny nose.
D: And what. What comes out of your nose? What do you see.
P: Over the last week? It's kind of like. Almost like a yellowish discharge.
D: Have you had any difficulties breathing?
P: No, I haven't. No.
D: No, nothing like that. Okay. Have you had any chest pain?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. Any other. Any other symptoms that you've experienced over the past five days?
P: Also, like, I do also feel like, a fullness and pressure going into my ears as well. And then I'm not sure, but yesterday I was feeling a little warm throughout the day. I didn't get a temperature, but I don't know if I had a fever or not.
D: Have you had any, I guess, like, weight loss or any night sweats?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. Any muscle aches?
P: No, not that I know.
D: Any fatigue or malaise?
P: I have been feeling a bit tired over the last few days, but I don't know if that's because of this.
D: Have you had contact with anyone who could be sick in the past week or two?
P: My. My daughter actually had a sore throat just last week, and she went to see a doctor.
D: Do you know if she had a COVID test done?
P: Yeah, she. She did have a COVID test done that was negative.
D: Okay. And. All right. Are you. Do you have any medical conditions that you've been diagnosed with?
P: I just have a high cholesterol and high blood pressure.
D: Do you take any Medications?
P: Yeah. So I just take. It's like a thiazide diuretic for blood pressure and then just atorvastatin for cholesterol.
D: Any allergies?
P: No, no allergies.
D: Any medical conditions that run in the family, including any heart conditions or lung conditions or cancers?
P: Yeah, so heart conditions. Both my dad and uncle have had heart attacks in their 50s. Yeah, that's all that I know. And we also have cancer on my mother's side. My uncle from my mother's side had bladder cancer.
D: Okay. Okay. And do you. You mentioned that you have a daughter. Do you. Who do you currently live with?
P: I live with two daughters and my wife.
D: Okay. And what do you do for. Do you work?
P: Yeah, currently I'm working from home. I'm an accounting clerk.
D: All right. And do you smoke at all, or did you smoke in the past?
P: Yeah, I do smoke, but I've cut down significantly in the past few years. I currently only smoke probably two or three cigarettes a day. I was smoking, like, almost a pack a day a few years back.
D: Oh, that's great. It's great that you're trying to cut down. Do you intend on cutting down or smoking even further?
P: Yeah, that's the plan. If I can do that, hopefully by the end of this year, that would be great.
D: That's wonderful. Do you smoke marijuana at all?
P: No.
D: Do you smoke any recreational drugs?
P: No.
D: Any alcohol?
P: Alcohol? Just. Probably just on the weekends. I have a couple beers.
D: Okay. All right. So I guess from the symptoms that you've described it, it sounds like you likely have a condition called acute rhinosinusitis, where you have inflammation of the sinuses in your face and potentially some inflammation in your nose as well. And often it's caused by a virus, and it usually gets better in a couple of weeks. And the best thing to do is just conservative management. Try to rest. And if, you know, taking any medications over the counter medications is helping you feel better. If you feel like Tylenol, sort of reducing some of that pressure, or if doing. Taking a steam bath is sort of helping relieve that pressure, try those. Drink a lot of water to try to sort of clear out all that mucus that's. That's building up. I'll also do a physical exam and talk to my attending and confirm all this information with him, and we can go from there.
P: All right, sounds good. Thank you.
D: Also, sorry, before I end the call, because these symptoms started recently, and they do overlap with some of the symptoms that a patient with COVID might have. It might be a good idea to get a Covid swab done as well. So we'll do that today. And you would have to quarantine and stay away from people at your home as well until the results are out. And then if it's positive, public health will let you know what to do.
P: All right, sounds good. Thank you so much.
