D: What can I do for you today?
P: Hi. So I just came here today. Been having this cough for the last two weeks, and it just is not going away. I've also been getting, like, just a runny nose for the last couple. I would say the whole week. All of last week.
D: Okay. So can you tell me about your cough? Yeah, so go on. Sorry.
P: It'S more of just like a dry cough. I'm not really bringing anything up.
D: No blood?
P: No.
D: And the runny nose, what's the discharge like?
P: It's pretty clear. It might be white, but it's not like green or yellow or anything like that.
D: So you've had this cough for two weeks, and the runny nose just started last week. Has the cough improved over the past two weeks?
P: It has. Like, it was much worse last week, but I just can't get, like. It's better now, but it's still lasting much longer than I've had a cough before.
D: Okay. And have you had a headache at all in these past two weeks?
P: No, I haven't had a headache, but sometimes I feel a bit congested.
D: And have you had any changes in your vision or your. Like a blurry vision or any redness in your eyes or tearing?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Any changes in smell?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any change in taste?
P: No, but. Sorry, but smell. Like, when I was a bit congested, I could smell less. I wasn't able to smell too much, but taste has been fine.
D: All right. And what about sore throat?
P: No, not sore throat.
D: Okay. What about any difficulties with breathing?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Any chest pain?
P: No.
D: Any palpitations or racing of your heart?
P: No.
D: Any pain in your belly?
P: No.
D: Nausea or vomiting, diarrhea or constipation?
P: No.
D: Any aches or in your. Any muscle aches?
P: No.
D: Any numbness or tingling in your arms or feet?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any fevers or chills?
P: No, not really. Last week I maybe had a. Two nights I was a bit chilly, but since then I've been fine.
D: Okay. And any night sweats?
P: No.
D: Unintentional weight loss?
P: No, my weight's been the same.
D: Okay. All right. And so it sounds like you have a cough that started two weeks ago, and then you only. And then you had two nights of. Two nights where you felt so cold and you had the chills last week, but you started. You developed a runny nose a week ago?
P: Yeah, the runny nose has been more this week. It kind of like started with the cough last week.
D: It's. Sorry. It started with the cough last week.
P: So late last week, I Would say.
D: I see.
P: Yeah.
D: Okay. All right. And are you. Do you have any medical conditions that you've been diagnosed with?
P: No, I've been completely healthy. Otherwise.
D: Any medications that you take, including over the counter or herbal medications or vitamins or minerals?
P: No, I don't take any medications.
D: Allergies, including allergies to food or environmental. Allergies and allergies to medications and any conditions. Medical conditions that run in the family.
P: I think my dad has high cholesterol.
D: In terms of your living situation, do you live alone?
P: Right now? I usually live in a dorm, going to university, but right now I'm home with my parents, just doing virtual learning.
D: Okay. Okay. And have you. Is there anyone else around in the home? Just your parents and you?
P: Yeah, just my parents and me.
D: All right. Have you. Have you been around someone who might be sick, or have your parents been around someone who could be sick?
P: My mom had the sniffles, like, last week, but she pretty much got over it.
D: Did she get tested for Covid?
P: No, she. She didn't, but, like, it was more. She just thought it was a cold or something, so she didn't really bother.
D: That's fair. Okay. And do you. So I see that you go to school and you mentioned you didn't. Have you traveled anywhere outside the province?
P: No, not at all. My school is actually in Ontario, so.
D: Okay, great. And do you currently or have you ever smoked?
P: Maybe, like a couple times, just casually. I've tried it, but nothing regular.
D: And what about marijuana?
P: Yeah, the same thing. Like, I've tried it probably like four or five times so far.
D: Any recreational drugs?
P: No.
D: Any alcohol?
P: Yeah, just not much right now, but, like, when we were at school, we would drink on the weekends.
D: Sounds good. All right, so it sounds like you've had a cough for the past two weeks and you developed a runny nose last week and your mom was ill the week before. It possible that you just have a common cold and that symptoms will get better over time. But just in case, we would also like to do a Covid swab to make sure that you just rule out Covid. In the meantime, I would request that you isolate, self isolate at home. Stay away from your parents as well. The test results should come back in 24 to 48 hours, and public health will give you a call if your results are positive and will let you know what to do. We will also do a physical exam here and check your temperature to see if you have a fever at all and. Yeah. Does that sound good to you?
P: Yeah. And will I need any like antibiotics for my cough.
D: Oh, well, we. I guess. You said that you don't have a sore throat at all, right?
P: No, I don't. It's just that I just feel like the cough's been just going on. Like it would be nice to just get rid of it.
D: Well, I'll do a physical exam. Look inside your throat. Look inside your mouth. Sorry. And listen to your chest and ensure that nothing else is going on. That you don't have anything. Like, say, strep throat or mono or you don't have pneumonia, a bacterial pneumonia, for instance. Oftentimes symptoms that you have are caused by the viruses and don't need to be treated with antibiotics. But I'll do a physical exam and maybe have a look at your labs as well and then decide accordingly.
P: Okay, Sounds good. Thank you.
D: Okay.
