P: I've been having this cough for around, I would say, half a year now, and I just can't seem to get rid of it.
D: Okay, and does this cough have any phlegm that you bring up?
P: No, it's completely dry. I can't bring anything up.
D: Okay, and since the cough started, has it been getting, getting worse, Staying the same, getting any better?
P: It was pretty much the same for, I would say, like three or four months, but then I've noticed it getting more frequent over the last couple months.
D: Okay, and six months ago, can you think of anything that that changed, including, like, traveling anywhere or changing in. In your work or living environment?
P: Not really. I'm like almost 75 years old now, so I just thought it was probably just due to my age.
D: Okay. Have you brought up any blood with the cough?
P: No, I've never brought up any blood.
D: Okay, have you had any shortness of breath?
P: Not that I've noticed, but I do find that I get a little bit more tired with exercise than I used to, but not really any shortness of breath.
D: Okay, and have you been experiencing any other symptoms?
P: I don't know if this is just due to old age, but, like, I've noticed some joint pain as well, like in my hands and feet. I just assumed that was because I'm getting old.
D: Okay, and has there been anything that's made the cough worse?
P: Sometimes when exercising a lot more, but not. Not too much. It's kind of just always been there. Hasn't really changed too much, but it's gone more frequent over the last couple months.
D: Okay, and anything that's made the cough better that you've tried?
P: No, nothing. I've tried, like, everything. I've tried Tylenol, Cold. I've tried other home remedies, but, like, steaming and everything like that, but nothing has really helped.
D: Okay, and is the cough worse in the morning, throughout the day or at night?
P: It's pretty much always there. It doesn't really change with any time of the day.
D: Okay, and is the cough interfering with sleep?
P: Yeah, sometimes I do have coughing fits at night that wake me up. I do have disrupted sleep over the last few months.
D: Okay, and you mentioned some joint pains as well. And when did those start?
P: I would say over the last year is when I started noticing it a lot more than before.
D: Okay. Have you been having joint stiffness or muscle stiffness early in the morning?
P: It does get a little bit more stiff in the morning, but it's kind of just there throughout the day.
D: Okay. Have you noticed any red hot or Kind of swollen joints?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Any injuries to any of your limbs or joints that could explain some of the pains there?
P: No, not that I know of. Nope.
D: Okay. And how has your energy been. Have you been experiencing a lot of fatigue?
P: Yeah, I definitely have been more tired. I can't really even go outside for a walk sometimes or I get really tired working in a garden, so it's been tough.
D: Okay, and when did that. When did you notice that change and how were you different before?
P: Like before. Like before six months ago. I remember I used to be able to go for long walks around the block. Then when I was gardening, I can go on for hours. But now I'm pretty. It's pretty limited to like maybe 15, 20 minutes and then have to go back into the house.
D: I see. Okay, so a pretty big difference over the last six months to a year for you.
P: Yeah.
D: Have you been experiencing any fevers or chills?
P: Not really. Not that I know of.
D: Okay, how about excessive sweating at night?
P: Nope.
D: Alright. And how has your appetite been?
P: My appetites are on the same. No changes there.
D: Okay. Have you experienced any weight loss?
P: Actually, I think lost a couple pounds, but not too much.
D: Okay, Would that be over the last six months or so?
P: Yeah, around the last. I would say three to four months.
D: Okay. Have you noticed any swollen glands anywhere, like in your neck or anything like that? You might feel like a lump?
P: No, not really.
D: Okay, have you had a sore throat or runny nose?
P: No, I haven't had a cold for more than two or three years, I think.
D: Okay. And how about a loss of smell?
P: No.
D: A loss of taste?
P: Nope.
D: All right, have you been experiencing any chest pains.
P: When the coughing gets pretty bad, like I get some strain in my chest, but nothing other than that.
D: All right, and any heart racing?
P: Nope.
D: All right, and how about wheezing?
P: No, not really.
D: Okay, and have you noticed any swelling in your limbs, like in your hands, in your feet or ankles?
P: No, not really.
D: All right, at night, have you had any periods where you woke up extremely short of breath and you had to sit on the edge of the bed with your feet over?
P: No, not that I remember.
D: Okay. And how many pillows do you sleep with?
P: Just one. Same as before.
D: Okay. And any abdominal pain?
P: No, no. Pain is just in my joints and sometimes in my muscles, but other than that? No.
D: Okay. Any urinary problems like pain or going really often?
P: Nope.
D: All right, and then any changes to bowel habits like diarrhea or constipation?
P: No, not that I know of.
D: Okay, and have you Noticed any skin rashes?
P: Nope.
D: Okay. And are there any joints in particular that are most affected?
P: I would say, like my legs and arms. It's pretty much a lot of the joints. Not really affecting my hip, but, like, everything else seems a bit sore.
D: Okay, and have you been diagnosed with any medical conditions in the past?
P: No, never. I've been pretty fortunate.
D: Okay, so do you take any medications, either prescription or over the counter?
P: No, just vitamins, but nothing else.
D: All right. Do you have any allergies?
P: No, not that I know of.
D: Have you been. You said you've been pretty healthy, but have you been in the hospital for any reason recently?
P: No.
D: Okay. And are your immunizations up to date?
P: Yeah, I got shingles vaccine, the one for pneumonia as well.
D: Okay. And have you traveled anywhere recently?
P: No, I've been at home.
D: Okay. And in the family. Have you heard of anything like this happening in the family, Sort of onset of this kind of shortness of breath and cough that you've been experiencing?
P: Not really. I don't really have shortness of breath. Like, it's. It's like a dry cough. Sometimes I do find myself breathing more shallow, but, yeah, mostly it's just a dry cough cough that's been going on.
D: Okay. And more of the fatigue?
P: Yeah.
D: Okay. Did anybody in the family have, like, autoimmune diseases like rheumatoid arthritis or lupus?
P: Yeah, I don't really. I can't really think of nothing. My mom and dad were completely healthy, so. I know. And I don't have any siblings, so. Yeah, nothing that I know of.
D: Okay. Any cancers in the family, like colon cancer or anything like that?
P: No, no cancers.
D: Okay. And can you tell me a little bit about your living situation?
P: Yeah, so right now I live alone in a small townhouse, and, yeah, that's. I have a pet dog, but that's about it.
D: Okay. And how do you support yourself financially?
P: So I'm retired, but I have a pretty good pension as well, as for my husband's pension as well. But he unfortunately passed away a couple years ago.
D: Oh, I'm sorry to hear that. What did you. So you retired. What did you do for work previously? Did you have any exposures to chemicals or asbestos products while at work?
P: Not that I remember. No, it was. It was a pretty. Pretty much, like a desk job, I would say.
D: Okay, so the reasons that you were visiting farms and, like, being around birds or anything like that?
P: Not really, but I do think, like, the old building that we lived in might have had asbestos. Does that, like, count at all?
D: Well, it could be important because, well, how long did you live there for?
P: I would say almost 20 years.
D: Okay, so yes, that definitely would be. Is important for the history today because unfortunately, long term exposure to asbestos, when breathing it in, can cause some of the symptoms that you've been describing, along with cough and respiratory symptoms. So it'll be something that we'll be sure to investigate today.
P: Okay.
D: But I just had a couple more questions first. Do you smoke cigarettes?
P: I quit a long time ago, more than like 10 years ago, but I used to smoke like five to 10 cigarettes for around 20 years.
D: Okay, and do you smoke cannabis?
P: No.
D: All right, did you drink alcohol?
P: No, not anymore.
D: Okay, and do you use any other recreational drugs?
P: Nope.
D: All right, and are you currently sexually active?
P: No.
D: All right, and have you had a sexually transmitted infection before?
P: No.
D: Okay, so those are the questions that I wanted to go over to make sure I asked on history. Was there anything that else you wanted to tell me?
P: No, I think that's all.
D: Okay, so next we'll do a physical exam and order some investigations. But currently thinking that it could be related to asbestos exposure as well as something called, well, it could cause pulmonary fibrosis. And then also the joint pains that you've been experiencing might be another symptom that is suggestive of a connective tissue disease. And it doesn't sound like you have a family history of those, but we will do some lab work and investigations for those, including a chest X ray and a chest ct.
P: Sounds good.
