D: What brings you in?
P: Yeah, so I just came in because I have this cough that's been going on for the last five years, but over the last month, it's really been getting worse. And, like, last week I just been constantly coughing. So, yeah, I was just a bit concerned.
D: Yeah. Okay, so you said the past couple of years you've been coughing. So how many years exactly would that be? 2, 3, 4, 5?
P: Probably 5, I would say. And I was diagnosed with COPD around that time.
D: Okay. Okay. The cough that you currently have, is it a dry cough or are you bringing up any phlegm?
P: I'm pretty much always bringing up, like, this white material.
D: White. Okay. And is it constant throughout the day, or do you find it comes and goes?
P: It's pretty much there all the time, but it's definitely getting worse. It is, I think, the worst in the morning when I wake up, and I just feel like there's just a bunch of gunk stuck in the back of my throat.
D: Okay. And if you were to describe the quality of this cough, would you say it's harsh? Barky, muffled?
P: I would say it's harsh.
D: Harsh. Okay. And has the quality of your cough changed at all in the past few years? Like, does it sound different than it used to?
P: I don't know if it sounds different, but especially for the last month, I would say I'm bringing up more of the material, and it's usually white over the five years, but I noticed in the last week. Ish. It has a yellowish tinge to it as well.
D: Okay. Okay. So it's changed a little bit. And are you experiencing any shortness of breath with this?
P: No, I. I don't think so. Like, I. Sometimes when I'm walking around doing more stuff, working in the garden, like, I feel like I might have to breathe a little bit harder, but not regularly.
D: Okay. Okay, that's good. And any wheezing?
P: Yeah, it's like, usually I start coughing a lot more when I'm starting to do any kind of activities. And sometimes when I start coughing more, I also start wheezing. But right now I'm fine.
D: You're fine now. Okay. All right. And sorry, I forgot to ask you earlier. Do you see any blood in your phlegm?
P: No, No, I haven't noticed any blood.
D: Okay. Any changes to your hair, nails, or skin, like rashes?
P: Not that I've noticed, no.
D: Okay. Any weight loss?
P: I don't think so.
D: Okay. Fevers?
P: Nope.
D: Exhaustion?
P: Yeah, I would say, like, for the last few months, I am a bit more tired.
D: Mm. Okay. How about changes in your vision or hearing?
P: No, I haven't experienced that.
D: How about stuffy nose, Runny nose?
P: No, not really.
D: No. Okay. How about changes to your smell or taste?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. Chest pain?
P: Not chest pain, but when I get into those coughing fits, sometimes it feels just really tight in my chest. But go away with just some rest.
D: Okay. Okay. How about palpitation? It's like feeling like a heart is racing.
P: No, I don't think so.
D: No. How about some swelling in your limbs?
P: I did notice, like a little bit of swelling in my. Both my. Like right by my ankles. My shoes. Like, like, even when I wear my socks, it like leaves little marks and then I just feel like. Like my shoes are tighter.
D: Okay. Okay. And how long has that been going on?
P: Probably I've had this issue for like a pretty long time. Probably. I would say the last year at least.
D: Okay. Okay. Last year. Any dizziness or fainting spells? No, no. Okay. Any memory issues? Confusion?
P: Nope.
D: Numbness or tingling?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: No. Headaches?
P: No, no headaches.
D: Changes to your bowel movements?
P: No, I tend to go like once a day and yeah, it's pretty normal.
D: Okay. Nausea or vomiting? No, no. Okay. And are you otherwise healthy? Do you have any long standing conditions? I know you said you had copd. Anything else?
P: I do have high blood pressure.
D: Okay. Do you have something called congestive heart failure?
P: No. What size?
D: Okay. It's when your heart's not pumping as much as it should be, so you get some backup of fluid. I asked because you mentioned that you were having some swelling in your legs.
P: Oh, I. Yeah, I didn't know anything about that. I just thought that was. It's been going on for a while now. It didn't really bother me too much.
D: Okay. All right. And are you taking any medications?
P: Yeah, I have this medication right now I'm taking. It's called lisinopril.
D: Okay. That's for your blood pressure?
P: Yeah.
D: Okay. Are you on puffers?
P: Yeah, sorry, I'm on. No worries. I'm on two puffers right now. One of them is like, just one that I use when I really need it. And then there's another one. So I think that's like the ventolin part. And then the other one is called. I think it's called spiriva.
D: Okay. Okay, perfect. And are your puffers giving you any relief at all from the coughing fits?
P: Yeah, I've been using the Ventolin more and it does seem to help.
D: Okay. Okay. Do you find they're not working as much as they used to, though.
P: Yeah. I feel like before I didn't really. Like, just last year, I didn't really have to take it too much. Like, even when I used the puffer, I start getting coughing, like maybe half an hour later. So it's not. I don't think it's as effective.
D: Okay. Yeah. Okay. And have you had any recent blood work done?
P: No, I haven't been to the doctor for a while.
D: Okay. Do you have any allergies?
P: I think I have allergies to, like, an amoxicillin. I got like a rash once.
D: Okay. Have you had any amoxicillin or like, penicillin type antibiotics recently?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. Are you up to date with all your immunizations?
P: Yep.
D: Okay. You're not quite at this age range yet, but we do recommend the pneumococcal vaccine when you turn 65. And did you get the flu vaccine this year?
P: Yeah, I did. With the pandemic going on, I usually don't get it, but I got it this year.
D: Okay, good, good. Any family history of lung conditions or heart conditions?
P: Lung conditions? I don't think so. Heart conditions. My father did have a heart attack in his 60s, but he's fine. He's living right now.
D: Okay. Okay. Any cancers?
P: Cancers? I think my uncle from my father's side had bladder cancer.
D: Okay. Okay. Do you smoke?
P: I used to smoke. I just quit a few years ago.
D: Okay, congrats. How much did you used to smoke?
P: I don't know. Probably. I went through like a whole pack every day, I would say, for at least 30 years of my life.
D: Okay, okay. So it's good that you stopped. Do you take any other recreational drugs?
P: No, nothing like that, no.
D: How about alcohol? Do you drink?
P: I drink every, like, maybe a beer a day.
D: Okay. Are you living with anyone right now?
P: Yeah, it's just me and my wife.
D: Okay. Where do you guys live?
P: We just live outside of the city in a condominium.
D: Okay. Any old carpets, mold, dust, asbestos, anything like that in the condo?
P: No, it's pretty well maintained.
D: Okay, good. And have you been in contact with anyone sick recently?
P: No, I've mainly just been trying to stay inside. I work from home too, so haven't really been seeing anyone.
D: Okay, that's good. And travel to anywhere recently outside the province?
P: Outside of province? No, not. Not for, like the last year, at least.
D: Okay. Okay. So those were kind of all the questions that I had for you. Did you have any questions for me?
P: Yeah, I was just wondering, like, what you think it might be.
D: Yeah. So it definitely sounds like a COPD exacerbation. But because your symptoms overlap with those of COVID we will take a swab and you should hear back in about 24 to 48 hours. And you can self isolate for 14 days. And if it's positive, public health will be in touch with you to do some contact tracing. But in the meantime, we'll also do a workup for the COPD exacerbation. It seems like you have taken the correct steps so far and like stopping your smoking and taking your puffers as needed. So right now we will continue using the puffers that you have. And if you don't already have a long acting beta agonist, we'll give you that as well as if it's like, if it gets really severe. We'll also give you some inhaled corticosteroids and we'll also check your oxygen saturation to make sure it's over 88%. And we'll give you oxygen if you need it as well, some antibiotics to consider. You mentioned that you were allergic to amoxicillin, so we might give you like macrolide like azithromycin for now and hopefully your symptoms subside and we can get you home. How does that sound?
P: Okay, that sounds good. Thank you so much.
D: Yeah, no problem. Oh, and I forgot, sorry. We'll also probably do like a chest X ray and pulmonary function test.
P: Okay, sounds good.
D: Yeah, no problem.
