D: How may I help you?
P: Hi. So I'm just coming in. I've over the last week been having just, like, cough, runny nose, and a lot of congestion as well. So I just wanted to come in here to make sure nothing's wrong.
D: I see. All right. And when did the cough start? Was it seven days ago?
P: A bit less than that. I would say. It's been probably like five or six days.
D: Okay, and has the cough been getting any better or any worse or staying the same?
P: It's kind of the same.
D: Okay, and are you bringing up any sputum with the cough?
P: No, it's mainly like a dry cough, but I am getting, like, a lot of drainage and just congestion in my nose.
D: Okay, so are you feeling like mucus drain from your nose, like, into the back of your mouth?
P: Yes, sometimes I feel like that over the last week.
D: Okay, you haven't caught up any sputum, but have you brought up any blood?
P: No, no blood.
D: Okay. Have you had any wheezing?
P: No, no wheezing.
D: Okay, and how about any chest pain?
P: No chest pain.
D: Okay, and you've had. And did you. Have you had a cough before or is this a new cough?
P: No, this is, like, fairly new.
D: Okay, and could you do. Is your nose like. Could you describe the discharge from your nose?
P: Yeah, it's more like kind of a clear to maybe whitish discharge.
D: And did these symptoms start about a week ago as well, or about five days ago?
P: Yeah, around the same time.
D: I see. Okay. And have you had any, like, facial pain, like over your. Over your cheeks or forehead?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Have you felt like your nose is obstructed, like you're not able to breathe in through either one of your nostrils?
P: Yeah, that happens. And sometimes the nostrils keep switching.
D: Okay. And have you had a loss or a change in your sense of smell?
P: Just when I'm congested, like, I feel like I can't really smell.
D: I see. All right. Have you had a loss or a change in your sense of taste?
P: No.
D: Okay. And have you had any shortness of breath with the cough?
P: No.
D: Okay. And have you had any eye redness or eye discharge?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: All right, and how about a sore throat?
P: Maybe a little bit of a tickle in my throat, but not sore.
D: I see. Okay, so have you had any pain with swallowing, food or liquids?
P: No.
D: Okay. And have you had any headaches?
P: No.
D: Any fevers or chills?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Any night sweats?
P: No.
D: And how's your weight been recently? Any changes?
P: No, no. Changes.
D: Okay, and have you had any nausea or vomiting?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Have you had any diarrhea?
P: No, no diarrhea.
D: Okay, and have you had any urinary problems like painful urination or frequency?
P: Nope.
D: Okay, and then any skin changes or rashes?
P: Nope, nothing like that.
D: All right, and any muscle aches or body pains?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: All right, and how has your energy been over this past week? Have you had fatigue?
P: No, I've been tired. I haven't been tired or like. It's just been, like, these symptoms that don't seem to go away.
D: I see. Okay. And I just want. Have you had any changes to your. To your voice?
P: No.
D: Or any neck swelling?
P: No.
D: All right, so it sounds like over the past week you've been having this dry cough as well as some nasal discharge and some congestion with a little bit of a scratchy throat. Any other symptoms?
P: No, that's pretty much it.
D: I see. All right. In the past, have you been diagnosed with any medical conditions?
P: No, I've been pretty healthy.
D: Okay, that's good. And any prior hospitalizations or surgeries?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: All right, and do you take any medications regularly prescribed or over the counter?
P: I've just been taking, like, Tylenol hold, but it's not really been helping too much.
D: Okay.
P: It.
D: Do you have any allergies?
P: No.
D: Okay. And currently, are you. Could you tell me a little bit about your living situation, like who you're living with and whereabouts?
P: Yeah, so I just live in an apartment with my boyfriend and live, like, just within the city.
D: Okay. And are you going to school right now?
P: Are you working? Yeah, I'm working currently, just at a grocery store.
D: Okay. And have you been around anybody who's been sick?
P: Not that I know of. Yeah, I haven't seen anyone, like, have symptoms of it or anything.
D: Okay. Have you traveled anywhere?
P: No, I've been in the province.
D: Okay, and you mentioned that you have a boyfriend. Are you currently sexually active?
P: Yep.
D: And do you use condoms or any form of birth control?
P: Yeah, usually, like, just condoms.
D: I see. Okay. And is there any chance that you could be pregnant currently?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: Okay. And I just want to. Are you currently smoking?
P: No, I haven't smoked ever.
D: Okay, that includes cigarettes and marijuana?
P: Yeah, no marijuana either.
D: Okay. Do you drink alcohol?
P: Just like once or twice in a week.
D: And is it like one or two drinks? Yeah.
P: So I would say, like, it would usually be wine.
D: I see. All right. Do you use any other recreational drugs?
P: No, nothing else. Okay.
D: And in the family, are there any history of heart or lung problems?
P: Not that I know of, no.
D: All right. And how about any cancers?
P: No. All right. So.
D: That was everything I wanted to ask today on history. Was there anything else that maybe I forgot to ask about, you wanted to mention? No, I just.
P: Yeah, I was just wondering if, like, I should be worried at all about.
D: COVID Yeah, certainly something that we'll be testing for today with some of the symptoms that you're. You're having, like cough and some non specific symptoms like that can show up in Covid for sure. So it will be important to get a test for that today. Well, which will require a nasal swab. That being said, it could be another type of viral illness like the common cold, which is causing your symptoms here today. And so it will just be important to be diligent. And if your symptoms diligent with the testing, I mean, with the COVID and if your symptoms get any worse, it might be important to go to the hospital or the emergency department.
P: Yeah, sounds good. Thank you so much.
