D: What brings you here today?
P: Yeah, so I brought in my daughter. She's eight years old. So recently she's been telling me she's having a lot of ear pain and she's had a fever for the past two days as well. We checked her temperature at home. It was 38.8. So we're just here to see if we can get some antibiotics for it.
D: Okay. Has this happened before at all?
P: She's had some ear infections on and off since she was, like, two.
D: Okay, and has she required antibiotics before?
P: Yes.
D: Okay, when was her last year infection? Do you remember?
P: It was actually last year when she was seven.
D: Okay. And so is it just one ear that she's having the pain or is it both?
P: It's one ear.
D: Okay, and which year is it?
P: It's the right ear.
D: Right ear. And when did you notice that she started having this pain?
P: I noticed it like, three days ago.
D: Three days ago. Okay, and was she irritable, like. Or was she kind of tugging her ears in pain or how. How would you describe it?
P: Yeah, she basically. Well, she told me she's been having some ear pain, and, yeah, she's been pulling at it. And, you know, she's tried, like, mineral oil and things like that to see if she can unblock it. But I looked in there. It doesn't seem like she has a lot of wax in there. Yeah.
D: Has it been so painful that she has been crying at all?
P: Yeah, she's cried a few times.
D: Okay. Have you noticed any kind of drainage coming out of her ears, Any fluids?
P: No, I didn't notice that.
D: Okay, Any fevers or chills?
P: Yeah, she's had a fever for the past two days.
D: Past two days. Okay. Did you get a chance to measure it at all?
P: 38.8.
D: 38.8. Okay. Okay. Has she had any other symptoms recently, like a cough, runny nose, sore throat? Any viral or cold, like, symptoms?
P: No, not that I've noticed.
D: Okay, and has she had any headaches?
P: No headaches.
D: Okay. Any recent travel or contact with anyone who's been sick?
P: Um, no.
D: No. Any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Any changes in her bowel movements?
P: Nope.
D: Any fatigue or just feeling very tired?
P: She's been pretty tired.
D: Okay. Has she had to miss any school or anything like that?
P: Yeah, she hasn't gone to school for the past three days.
D: Okay. Any issues with her sleep or appetite?
P: No.
D: Okay. And any medical conditions that she's been diagnosed with in the past?
P: No, she's been pretty healthy besides the recurrent ear infections.
D: Okay. Has her hearing been affected at all?
P: Not that I've noticed.
D: Okay, and you mentioned it's recurring. Has she ever had to see an ear, nose, and throat specialist?
P: So when she was younger, when she was like, four, she saw one, but then she hadn't had an ear infection between the age of four to seven, so we didn't go back to them after.
D: Has she ever had tubes put into your ears or anything like that?
P: No. They were talking about it, but we never ended up doing that.
D: Okay. Okay. Any medications that she takes regularly?
P: No, just multivitamins. Okay.
D: Any allergies?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any. So no sick contacts at all? Any hospitalizations or surgeries in the past?
P: No.
D: How about her birth? Was it a vaginal delivery or a C section?
P: It was vaginal.
D: And was she premature or at term?
P: She was that term.
D: Any complications at all during your pregnancy with her?
P: No, no.
D: After she was born, did she have to stay in ICU or any complications afterwards?
P: No, she was healthy.
D: Okay, that's good. And in terms of her development throughout the years, any issues with her growth, learning, or anything like that?
P: No. She's been pretty good with hitting all those milestones.
D: Okay. All right. And currently right now, so is she doing online school or is she doing in person?
P: She's going in person.
D: Okay. And how about her living situation?
P: Currently, Asha was at home with myself, her father, and her younger siblings.
D: Okay. And any. Anyone smoke in the house at all?
P: No.
D: Okay. All right, so those are all the questions I had for her today, so thank you. Definitely. Since there is a risk that she might be having another ear infection, we will need to do, like, a full physical examination. I'll have to look into her ear to see if I see any inflammation or perforation. And then based on that, we'll discuss some management. She may require some antibiotics like she has had before, but that'll depend on what I see on physical examination. She has been having a fever, so she might. And it's only been three days. Right. So we may even do some conservative management and get her to take some maybe pain medications and then go from there, or ear drops. But, yeah, so we'll do the examination and then go from there. Since she had. Besides the fever and the ear pain, she's not really having any other symptoms. So I don't think she needs to get tested for Covid right now. But that's something we can consider as well if she develops other symptoms.
P: Okay, that sounds great. Thank you.
D: You're welcome. Take care.
P: You too.
