P: Okay.
D: What brings you in here today?
P: Hi. I've. I've just been. I've been sneezing a lot, and I have this runny nose. It's just been very irritating. I kind of want to do something about it. I've had it for a while, but it's just, you know, I decided to, like, come in to find out what's. What's wrong with me. Why do I, like, why does this happen to me? All my friends are okay.
D: Oh, yeah. No, it must be very, very irritating. How long has it been going on for?
P: It's been years. I don't even remember.
D: Oh, years. Okay. And years of, like, just sneezing and the runny nose has been going on for the last few years?
P: Yeah, it kind of. Kind of comes on, like, around the springtime. It just gets really clean that time.
D: Yeah. Okay. And are there any, besides, during the springtime, any kind of allergens or any. Anything in the house or around you that triggers it? Like dust or anything like that?
P: Yeah, dust, like, makes it a lot worse. Like, when I have to vacuum the house, I just feel awful for the next two days.
D: I see. Do you get any other symptoms beside the sneezing and the runny nose?
P: Yeah, like, my nose is so stuffy, and sometimes it's just, like, my eyes and my nose are just itchy and my eyes get, like, red and teary sometimes. It's so embarrassing. When I'm going to school, I also wake up in the morning with this sore throat and have to just cough and clear out my. You know, clear my throat.
D: Okay. And does that happen, like, every morning?
P: It's usually worse around springtime.
D: Okay. All right. And are you coughing at all?
P: Well, I have to, like, cough to clear my throat, but then not otherwise.
D: Okay. And are you bringing up any sputum?
P: Yeah, that time. Yeah, I do.
D: Like, how much would you say. Do you just bring it up in the morning or, like, throughout the day?
P: Just in the morning.
D: Just in the morning, yeah. Do you have a sensation of, like, kind of anything kind of dripping down your throat, like, after you wake up, like just a building?
P: Yeah. Yeah, I do.
D: Okay. And besides that, have you been having any symptoms of fevers, chills, sore throats?
P: I get. I get a bit of a sore throat, I guess, in the morning, but it just goes away after. Okay, but no fevers.
D: Okay. And is there anything that you've tried at all, like medications or anything that has helped you with these symptoms?
P: Yeah, I tried, like, reactin, and that really helped.
D: That helped okay.
P: Yeah, that's good.
D: And are you taking reacting right now?
P: I didn't take it today. I tried it a couple days ago.
D: Okay. And have you traveled at all recently?
P: No.
D: Okay. And any sick contacts, anyone around you that has been sick?
P: I don't think so.
D: Okay. Any headaches? No. Any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Any fevers or chills?
P: No.
D: Any kind of fatigue or tiredness throughout the day?
P: I do feel more fatigued when I have these symptoms.
D: Okay. Any night sweats, fevers or chills?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any changes in your bowel movements at all?
P: No.
D: Any trouble urinating?
P: No.
D: Any changes to your appetite or weight?
P: I've been losing weight, but I've been dieting and working out more.
D: Okay, and how much weight would you say you've lost over the last few months?
P: I've lost about £4 in the past four or five months. It's been hard to lose weight.
D: And so no sudden, like, loss of weight or anything like that, right?
P: No. I don't know.
D: Okay. Well, it's really great that you're, you know, trying to lose weight and dieting and having, like, a healthcare lifestyle. It is definitely harder with the pandemic going on right now too, to get in the activities and it's hard, like, being at home. It's sometimes really difficult to, like, not eat right.
P: Yeah, they are true.
D: Yeah. So besides. Besides that, any kind of recent exposures to any fumes, dust, animals, pets, like, anything like that?
P: Well, yeah, I was kind of vacuuming a couple days ago when it got really bad, but nothing. Not. Not. I don't think there's been any other exposures.
D: Okay. And do you have any past medical conditions that you've been diagnosed with, like asthma, eczema, anything like that?
P: I haven't been diagnosed with anything. You know, I did have, like. I know that I would sometimes get kind of short of breath as a child, but my mom doesn't really trust doctors, so she wouldn't take me to one.
D: Okay. Have you had shortness of breath after that? Like when? Like as a child. How old were you?
P: I must have been like eight years old. Eight or nine years old, that I remember. But I think I've had it before that as well, as my mom tells me.
D: Okay. Do you have that at all now?
P: No. No, I don't.
D: No.
P: Okay.
D: Okay. Have you ever seen an allergist before?
P: No.
D: No. No. Okay. Do you have any known allergies to any medications or any. Yeah. Any medications?
P: No.
D: No. Do you take any medications at all on a regular basis?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. Have you been hospitalized or had any surgeries in the past?
P: No.
D: Any family history of any asthma, allergic rhinitis, anything like that?
P: Yeah, I think it kind of runs in my family. Like, everyone in my family is just kind of always having this runny nose and sneezing. My mom has it, my younger brother has it, but, like, we haven't really been diagnosed with anything. Like, we rarely go to the doctor.
D: Okay. Okay. And currently, right now, do you work at all or. Sorry, do you go to school?
P: I do, I do. I've been doing it virtually.
D: Virtually. Okay. Have you noticed anyone sick around you?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. And what, at home, what's your living situation like? Who do you live with?
P: I live with my mom, dad, and my younger brother.
D: Okay. And, yeah, I just want to let you know that any questions that I ask you today and anything we talk about is completely confidential, unless, like, there is any potential harm to yourself or anyone. Anyone else. So, yeah, I'm just gonna ask you a few questions. Do you feel safe at home?
P: Oh, yeah.
D: Okay. And do you drink alcohol at all or have you tried alcohol?
P: No, not at all?
D: No. Have you tried any recreational drugs, like marijuana?
P: No.
D: How about smoking?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. And are you sexually active?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. And so overall, do you feel safe in your home and as well as outside of your home environment? Any kind of bullying or anything like that going on?
P: No, not at all.
D: Okay, great. Yeah. So those are kind of all the questions that I have for you. Sorry, just one more question. Any loss of sense of taste or smell?
P: Yeah, it's hard to smell when my nose is stuffy, but no loss of taste, of smell. Yeah.
D: Okay. Okay. So do you have any questions at all for me?
P: No, I just. I just want to get some medications to help with this. I'm just sick and tired.
D: Yeah. Must be very frustrating. So you've tried Reactin before, right?
P: Yeah.
D: Yeah. So one. One method is to definitely stay away from some of those allergens that are potentially causing your symptoms. But I do really think so. You might have something called like, allergic rhinitis. And I think it might be beneficial to. For you to see, like, an allergist. Sure. And so I can refer you to someone as well just have a sense of what kind of things. Allergies to you and like, what medications you would require in the meantime. Definitely, like, any antihistamine medications would help with your symptoms. But since you're also having congestion and sneezing, just. Just in case, we will just do a Covid swab test for you today, and it takes around 24 to 48 hours to come back. And in the meantime, you should just isolate as much as you can in your own home, and then based on the result, they will give you more instruction.
P: Sure.
D: All right. Thank you. Take care.
