D: How may I help you?
P: Hi. I've had. I've had a cough for the past three days, and I also developed a fever, I think. So I checked it yesterday night. It was 38. And I just decided to come into the Bakken Clinic just to get myself checked out.
D: Yeah, certainly. It sounds like you have had a fever as well. So with the cough, you said it started three days ago. Has it been getting any better or any worse?
P: It's gotten a little bit better, I'd say.
D: Okay, that's good. And prior to three days ago, did you have a cough before or was it a new cough?
P: It's a new cough.
D: All right. And are you bringing up any sputum?
P: No.
D: Are you bringing up any blood?
P: No.
D: And have you had any shortness of breath?
P: No, I haven't.
D: Okay, how about any wheezing?
P: Yeah, I guess a little bit.
D: A little bit. Okay. Is it. Are you having any chest pain?
P: No.
D: Okay. And so you mentioned with the fever, have you had any chills?
P: Yeah, I did. I had the chills yesterday.
D: And have you had any night sweatshirt?
P: Um, no.
D: All right, and have you had any eye redness, runny nose, or even a sore throat?
P: No, I haven't.
D: All right, have you had any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Loss of taste or a loss of smell?
P: No.
D: Okay. And any abdominal pains?
P: No.
D: Any diarrhea?
P: No.
D: You got any urinary problems?
P: No.
D: Okay, and have you had any skin changes or rashes?
P: No.
D: And how has your energy been? If you had fatigue?
P: A little bit.
D: All right, and have you had any muscle aches or body pains?
P: Not much, no. But yeah, it's just I've been feeling. Yeah, I guess a little bit. I have been feeling achy, but I just thought it was my fibromyalgia acting up. But yeah, it's been worse over the past three days.
D: Okay, so you had this cough, a dry cough, a fever, chills, and been more tired and been a little bit more achy these past three days. Have you had any other symptoms?
P: I don't think so.
D: Okay, and have you tried anything to make it better?
P: I just took a day or two off of work and I just rested and had a lot of hot water. It helped me that they helped with the cough.
D: Okay, great. And have you had any symptoms like this before?
P: Yeah. Yeah. I mean, when I. I guess I get sick, I do get similar symptoms when I get the cold or the flu, but I usually have like a runny nose or like a stuffy nose with it. It's kind of different this time a little bit.
D: Okay. And in the past, have you been diagnosed with any medical conditions?
P: I have fibromyalgia and I also have schizophrenia.
D: Okay. And are you taking medications currently?
P: Yeah, I take Quetiabine and I just. I take Advil when my joint beans are really bad or like, I guess, like my muscle aches are bad. Yeah.
D: Okay. And do you have a. Somebody that follows you along for other fibromyalgia or schizophrenia?
P: My family doc. And then. Yeah, it's pretty much just him. He. Yeah.
D: Okay. And do you have any allergies to medications?
P: No.
D: All right. And are you aware if your immunizations are up to date?
P: Yeah.
D: All right. Could you tell me. Sorry. Actually, have you had any hospitalizations or previous surgeries?
P: Well, I. I've been hospitalized. I. I was kept in the psych unit for a couple of days two years ago, but nothing other than that.
D: Okay. And have things been stable since then?
P: Yeah.
D: Okay, great. Ann, I just wanted to ask a little bit about your personal history. I was just wondering if you could tell me a little bit about where you're living and who you're living with.
P: Sure. So I'm living with my. I'm living with my husband, and we live in an apartment.
D: Okay. And has he been sick or has anybody you've been around been sick?
P: He was sick last week, but he got better on his own.
D: Okay, and were his symptoms similar to yours or were they different?
P: They were kind of different. I would say he just had. He had a sore throat, and that kind of lasted for three or four days, and then he just got better.
D: Okay, and are you currently working or.
P: I must stay at home. I just stay at home. I don't work.
D: Okay. And so. And have you traveled anywhere or any other potential exposures?
P: No.
D: Okay. And do you smoke cigarettes?
P: I do.
D: Okay. Yeah. How much?
P: Two or three a day.
D: And for how long? When did you start smoking? Sorry.
P: I've been smoking since I was 20 years old, about 30 years ago. As many.
D: And have you thought. Have you tried to quit before?
P: I did, but then I just didn't. I just went back to it. But I'm trying to cut down.
D: Okay, that's good that you've been able to cut down. So congratulations on that. And do you drink alcohol?
P: I do. I'll drink sometimes with my friends, maybe once a month or once in two, three months. But I haven't been going out with them since the pandemic started, so I haven't had much to drink. I haven't had anything to drink since the past year.
D: Okay. I see. And have you had any history of heart or lung conditions in the family?
P: No.
D: Okay. And I think that was all the questions that I wanted to ask on. On history today. Before we go ahead onto the physical exam, did you have anything that you wanted to add, maybe before that I. That I forgot to ask about?
P: No.
D: Okay. So we will start with some investigations, including a Covid swab today, just because of your general symptoms, which do overlap with COVID although it could, as you mentioned, be something like the common cold as well. And so we will be sure to test for Covid. And in the meantime, we ask to self isolate for 14 days, and we will get back the results as soon as we can. And if your symptoms get worse at any point, then we will. Yeah, accordingly.
P: Sounds good.
