D: How could I help you today?
P: Hi, I'm bringing my one year old daughter in because she's had this fever, this runny nose and this cough for the past like three, four days and now she sounds pretty wheezy.
D: Okay, and has she had a fever the entire time over the past three or four days?
P: Yeah, I would say so. Like it's come and gone, but every time I checked her temperature, I tried to check like twice a day, it would be pretty high, like 38 to around 39.
D: Okay, so it was between 38 and 39 each time you checked it?
P: Yeah, and now I should mention, like I checked today and she didn't have a fever today, but she sounds really wheezy now.
D: Okay, is the wheeze new today?
P: Yeah.
D: Okay, and the cough that started about three or four days ago as well?
P: Yeah, that's right.
D: And how does the cough sound? Has it sounded like barky or like a seal like cough?
P: It sounds pretty harsh. I don't know if it sounds barky.
D: Okay, and is the cough worse at any particular time of the day, like morning or night?
P: No, it's just always there.
D: Okay, is she bringing up any phlegm or sputum?
P: She's bringing up some, actually, she used to bring up some phlegm, but now it's pretty dry.
D: Okay, so she was bringing up phlegm initially and it was no longer. What color was was clear. Okay, Any blood that you noticed there?
P: No, no blood.
D: Okay. And yeah, she's had a wheeze as well. Have you noticed any chest pain, if she was like pointing to her chest or anything?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay, and has she had any like fainting spells? No. Okay. And yeah, she's had a fever. Has she had any like chills or night sweats, like where she's shaking?
P: Oh, no, no.
D: And how has her mood been?
P: She's been pretty fussy. Yeah, she's been pretty fussy over the past few days, but I just thought it was because of how she was feeling, like her symptoms.
D: Yeah, certainly. Has she been eating and drinking? Okay.
P: Yeah, we've managed to get her to drink and eat. Okay, so in that sense, no changes there.
D: Okay. How many diapers is this? How many wet diapers per day?
P: About five.
D: Okay, so still been able to maintain hydration? It sounds like, yeah. Okay, and has she had any like eye redness or eye discharge?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Any suggestion that she might have like any ear pain or any ear discharge?
P: No.
D: Okay, and has she had a runny nose?
P: Yeah, now that you mention it. Yeah, she did have a runny nose. It seems to be less now, but she did have a lot a few days ago.
D: Okay, and did that start around the same time as the. The cough and fever?
P: Yeah.
D: Okay. It's still going on, but just less.
P: Mm, that's right. Yeah.
D: Okay, on feeds or anything like that, have you noticed, like, any redness in the back of her throat?
P: I noticed some. Yeah, I noticed some redness, but I just thought it was because of her coughing a lot.
D: Okay, and have you noticed any skin changes or rashes?
P: No.
D: All right, and any changes to bowel habits, like diarrhea?
P: No, no changes there.
D: Okay. And then any changes to, like, urinary habits as well?
P: No, no changes there.
D: Okay. And have you noticed any, like, bulging on her, on her forehead or on the anterior fontanelle?
P: No.
D: Okay. And has she had any nausea or vomiting?
P: No, not that I've noticed.
D: All right. Yeah, she's been a little bit more irritable as well. Okay, and has she had any symptoms like this before?
P: I mean, when she was a few months old, she had similar symptoms and she was, like, hospitalized for maybe a day or two, but she became better.
D: Okay, did she need, like, antibiotics or inhalers or anything like that?
P: I think they just gave her some oxygen and some fluids.
D: Okay. Has she been diagnosed with any medical conditions before?
P: No.
D: Okay. And besides that one time going, like, going to the hospital, has she been hospitalized or had any surgeries?
P: No, before that, she was fine.
D: All right, are the immunizations up to date?
P: Yep, everything's up to date.
D: Excellent. And in terms of the pregnancy itself, were there any complications throughout with mom?
P: No complications.
D: Okay. And was it a full term delivery and vaginal or C section?
P: It was full time and it was vaginal.
D: Okay. At any concerns at birth, like jaundice or any types of distress?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: And how has her growth and development been thus far? Any concerns?
P: No.
D: Okay, that's great. And in terms of the home environment, who's living with her and who's primarily looking after her?
P: So is her dad and I, as well as her grandma.
D: Okay. And has anybody in the home been sick recently?
P: No, everyone's been healthy.
D: Okay. And has there been any travel?
P: No, we haven't gone anywhere recently.
D: Okay, and does anybody in the house smoke?
P: Nope.
D: Okay. And are there. Are there any pets or are there any, like, carpets or linens that can hold. Hold a lot of dust or dander?
P: No.
D: Okay. And then any other exposures to, like, triggers or potentially things that could Be like smokes or stuff like that that could be inhaled?
P: No, we don't have anything like that at home. It's a fairly new home and it's hardwood floors. Yeah.
D: Okay. And any family history of lung problems or heart problems?
P: No. No.
D: Okay, how about a family history of any congenital diseases or any genetic diseases?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. And family history of any cancer?
P: No.
D: Okay. So were there any other. So that was everything that I wanted to ask today before we went on to the physical exam. Was there anything else that you wanted to add or were wondering about that I maybe forgot to ask?
P: Yeah. What can we do for her to make her better? And are you concerned about her breathing?
D: So the physical exam and the vital signs will really help with that. Assessor work of breathing and to see oxygen levels. And this could be caused by a viral infection which could be something along the lines of like a common cold type picture. And we can get, like, inflammation of the really small airways and it can cause cough and fever and some of the symptoms that she's experiencing. And also these symptoms do overlap with COVID as well, and so be important to get a Covid swab just in case. But if that is the scenario, then it will be supportive care with oxygen, fluids, and we'll make sure that her breathing is okay. Possibly would mean steroids and an inhaler if necessary.
P: Okay. Okay, that sounds good. Thank you.
