D: What brings you in?
P: Yeah, so I'm just bringing my son here to the clinic. He's been having. I think he's been complaining of earache and his. I think it's mainly in his left ear. For the last, let's say at least a week, he's been kind of just having discomfort. And over the last few days, he also started crying because of how much pain he's having. And then we also noticed that he was just feeling warm, so we took his temperature, and he actually had a fever just yesterday of like, 39 degrees Celsius.
D: Okay. All right, so let's back up just a little bit. The ear pain, when did that start? You said a couple days ago. So was that two, three, four days?
P: I think the discomfort, like, we saw him scratching his ear for the whole last week, but the crying actually started just, I would say, four days ago.
D: Okay.
P: So I think the last few days have been really tough for him.
D: Yeah. So three, four days. Okay. Have you taken a look into his ear? Like, does it seem red? Is there discharge?
P: I think we did see some just like it wasn't red or anything, but I think we did see some just kind of clear to. Almost clear to yellowish fluid from his affected ear.
D: Okay. Clear to. You said whitish.
P: Like, it was a bit of a yellow tinge to a two as well.
D: Yellow. Okay. Okay. And which ear was it? Sorry? The right or left?
P: Left ear.
D: Left ear. Okay. And the right ear looks normal.
P: Yeah. Right ear. He hasn't been complaining at all. I haven't even looked at the right ear yet.
D: Okay. Is he itching his ears at all?
P: He was itching, like, pretty much this whole week, but I think right now he's hesitant to even touch his ears.
D: Okay, and does it look like it's angry on the outside or on the inside of his ears?
P: I can't really see anything on the outside.
D: Okay. Okay. And have you noticed that his hearing has changed at all?
P: He still, like, answers to us. And, like, I don't think his ear hearing is affected.
D: Okay. Has he had any past issues with his ears, like, ear infections or, like, hearing issues in the past?
P: No hearing issues, but he did have, like, he used to probably when he was, like, 2 years old. He did have a couple ear infections.
D: Okay. Okay. Were they. Were they treated with antibiotics?
P: I think one time they were, but I'm pretty sure that was on in his right ear.
D: Okay. Okay. He's never had to get, like, tubes inserted or anything like that?
P: No, no, nothing like that?
D: No. Okay. All right. Has he Had a stuffy nose or a runny nose?
P: Not this week, but he. He was a bit like stuffy, like last week, I would say.
D: Okay. He was a bit stuffy, you said?
P: Yeah, maybe even. Maybe two weeks ago.
D: Okay. And that stopped. Did he have anything else along with his stuffy nose at that point?
P: No, nothing else.
D: Right now. Have you noticed any changes in his vision, in his smell or taste?
P: No, not that I know of.
D: Okay, how about weight loss?
P: No, he's been growing pretty well.
D: Okay. And you said you had taken his temperature. When did you take his temperature?
P: Just took. Took it yesterday, but he was feeling a bit warm yesterday, so we just took it and it was like 39 degrees Celsius.
D: Okay. Okay, sweet. So 39 degrees. So he does have a fever for sure. We'll take his temperature again today just to make sure. Have you been giving him anything for his high temperature, like Tylenol?
P: No, we haven't given him anything.
D: Have you noticed any rashes on him? No, no. How about coughing?
P: No, he hasn't been really coughing.
D: No coughing. How about wheezing or shortness of breath?
P: No.
D: Like anything that would indicate he has chest pain or palpitations of his art? No. Okay. Any dizziness or fainting spells?
P: No.
D: Confusion?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: Headaches?
P: Not that I know of.
D: Okay, and how. How have his bowel movements been?
P: His bowel movements have been pretty much the same. He's. Yeah. There have been no real changes?
D: No. Okay. All right. And how about nausea or vomiting?
P: No, no nausea or vomiting.
D: Any appetite change?
P: No. Maybe a little bit more fussy, just. But I don't know if that's probably due to the pain.
D: Okay, and how about his urine?
P: His urine has been the same. Like, no changes?
D: No changes. Okay, good. Is he an otherwise healthy kid or does he have any long standing conditions?
P: Yeah, he's pretty healthy. There have been no concerns at all that we've had for the doctor. He's been growing well, meeting all of his milestones. Yeah, nothing that's been concerning.
D: Okay. Do you know if his mother's pregnancy with him was normal? Did she have any complications?
P: She didn't have any like, complications during the pregnancy. They did have to. I forgot what it's called. But he was like a difficult baby coming out and he was at term, though. He wasn't premature, but they had to use just some tools to get him out.
D: Okay, okay, so it was a vaginal delivery, but they used some tools like forceps maybe, or vacuum.
P: Yeah, yeah, it was forceps. Yep.
D: Okay. Okay. And you mentioned he was full term.
P: Yeah, he was born at 40 weeks.
D: Okay, perfect. Did he need to be hospitalized for any reason after that?
P: No, he wasn't hospitalized. We stayed there maybe one day extra just because there was some. Just kind of misshaping of his head that kind of went away.
D: Okay. Okay, good. And is he on any medications?
P: No, no medications.
D: No medications up to date with his immunizations?
P: Yeah, he's all up to date.
D: Okay. Any allergies?
P: Not that we know of.
D: Okay. Have a family history of lung conditions, heart conditions?
P: No, we've been pretty healthy as parents. I think my. My father has, like, high blood pressure, diabetes, and all those types of things.
D: Okay. Okay. Any ear issues? Like congenital ear. Sorry, genetic hearing issues or ear issues?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Does anyone at home smoke?
P: No. No one smokes.
D: Okay. And who does he live with?
P: So he lives with me, his father, and then his mother as well.
D: Okay. Any siblings?
P: No siblings. He's an only child.
D: Okay. And how are things at home? Is like. Are things financially stable? Any relationship issues?
P: No, we've been pretty fortunate. Like, it's. No financial issues, and we have a lot of support from our parents as well. The relationship is great, so no issues.
D: Okay, good. Good. Has he had any sick contacts recently?
P: I don't think so. He's. We've been at home, so I don't know. We did have, like, with our. With my brother's kids. Like, they came to see us once, but that was, like. That was, I think, at, like, three weeks ago.
D: Okay. Okay. Three weeks ago. All right. Travel to anywhere recently?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. All right. Those are all the questions I had for you today. Do you have any questions that you wanted to ask me today before we end the interview?
P: No, not really. Just wanted to know if, like, I remember he did need antibiotics before, so I was just wondering if he needs them now.
D: Yeah. So. Well, first, because some of his symptoms overlap with COVID like, the fever especially. We'll do a swab on him anyways, and you should hear those results in about 24 to 48 hours. And then this picture sounds like acute otitis media. So, like, an ear infection. And it's especially likely because he's had them in the past. So I'm gonna have to take a look into his ears first before, like, coming up with a management plan, but I'll kind of walk you through what we look at. So if I take a look and I see, like, a perforated tympanic membrane with, like, pus we prescribe, like, 10 days of antibiotics. If he has some, like, middle ear effusion. So, like, some fluids with, like, a bulging tympanic membrane. And he appears to be really ill, which, from the sounds of it, he sounds ill. He's had this fever for more than two days. We'll also prescribe antibiotics for 10 days. And then if it's just some middle ear effusion. So just the clear fluid or just the bulging tympanic membrane, we can just reassess him in 24 to 48 hours to see how he's doing. And if he's worse again, we'll prescribe him some antibiotics. The antibiotics that we usually prescribe are amoxicillin, because he doesn't have a penicillin allergy. That should work.
P: Okay.
D: Yeah. How does that sound?
P: That sounds good. Thank you so much.
D: Okay, great. Thank you.
