D: How may I help you?
P: I've helped over the last few days, and I've started to have a sore throat as well.
D: When did this start?
P: So the runny nose started about five days ago. And the sore throat? About the same.
D: Okay. Have you. With the runny nose, do you have any. What's the discharge like?
P: It's been kind of watery. It's clear.
D: Okay. All right. And has your sore throat gotten better or worse over the past five days?
P: It did get a little bit worse initially, and since then it's been kind of stable.
D: Have you had any difficulties swallowing?
P: No, it is a bit sore to swallow, so it takes me a little bit longer to eat, but I've been able to still, still eat.
D: Have you noticed any changes in your voice? Any hoarseness in your voice?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. And do you have any nasal congestion? Does your nose feel stuffy?
P: Yeah, it does. Yes.
D: Okay. Any fevers or chills?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: Okay. Any difficulties breathing?
P: No.
D: Any cough?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any pain in your chest?
P: No.
D: Any other symptoms, anything related to your belly, say, diarrhea or constipation or any changes in your urinary. Any urinary symptoms?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Okay. Are you feeling fatigued, tired? Have any muscle aches?
P: I have felt a little bit more drowsy these last few days, and.
D: I.
P: Have had some muscle aches as well.
D: Okay. Have you taken anything to help yourself? Anything over the counter or any pills?
P: I did use some cold medication to help because I was having a headache as well, and a lot of, I guess, just, like, pressure from the nose stuffiness.
D: Did the cold meds help?
P: Yeah, it did help a little bit. It did help my nose clear up, but it came right back after a few hours.
D: And how's your headache now?
P: It's not too bad. It's pretty mild, but it's there.
D: Do you usually get headaches of this sort, or is this very different from what you generally experience if you usually have headaches?
P: I don't usually get headaches, but I have felt a headache like this before, though.
D: Okay. When was that?
P: Maybe the last time I was sick or if I don't get a good night's sleep? School's pretty early in the morning, so sometimes if I'm not sleeping well.
D: I see. Okay. All right. Any other symptoms that you've experienced over the past five days that I didn't ask you about?
P: No, it's been. Yeah, mostly the runny nose and sore throat and headache.
D: I see. Okay. All right. And do you have any medical conditions?
P: No, I've been healthy.
D: All right, good. Any medications that you take on a regular basis?
P: I'll use, like Reactant or Claritin sometimes for allergies, but that's it.
D: What allergies do you have?
P: I have allergies to dust and some environmental things like pollen or ragweed, I think, maybe.
D: Okay. I see. All right. And do you have any family history of any medical conditions?
P: I think my has high blood pressure. He takes a medication for that. Nothing serious that I know of.
D: Okay. And who do you currently live with?
P: So I live with both my parents, and I. I have an older sister as well.
D: Good. Okay. And do you smoke?
P: I did try a vape once or twice, but didn't really like it, so no.
D: All right. What about marijuana?
P: No, I haven't tried that.
D: Any recreational drugs?
P: No.
D: Do you drink alcohol?
P: No.
D: Okay. And have you recently traveled anywhere?
P: No. We've been doing classes virtually.
D: And any contact with anyone who you think might be sick?
P: No.
D: Okay. All right. Well, sounds like you have a sore throat, a runny nose, you've been a little bit drowsy, had some headaches in the past five days. Things were getting a little bit worse early on, but it's been a little bit. It's been more stable. Now we'll do a physical exam. See, just listen to your chest. Have a look inside your mouth and check your temperature and go from there. It sounds like you probably have a viral infection of some sort that should get. Hopefully get better over time. We will also get a Covid swab done just in case. And if things seem to get worse, you can definitely come back.
P: Okay, great. Thank you.
