P: How may I help you? Hi, Chris. So, yeah, I'm really worried. I started coughing up blood this morning, and for the last two days, I've been having some, like, on my right calf. Just a lot of swelling and tenderness. I just actually got of the hospital just last week. I had a knee replacement surgery on my right leg. So, yeah, I was just really concerned about this blood that I'm coughing up.
D: Yeah, certainly. So when. So you had a knee surgery last week. Were you, like, immobilized afterwards?
P: For a period of time, yeah, I've been just taking some rest, not really doing too much. And even in the hospital, like, I. I was there for a day and was pretty immobilized. Okay.
D: And have you had any pain in your calf, and if so, which one?
P: It's just the right calf, and it's pretty swollen right now, and I was having a lot of pain over it for the last two days.
D: Okay, can you feel the pain at rest or is it with, like, with movement or if you press on it?
P: It's. Yeah, it's pretty tender when I press on it. I haven't really been moving around, and it's still, like, painful right now, but it doesn't really hurt when I'm like. Like, I've been trying to keep myself rested just because of the surgery, but when I press on it, it is pretty tender.
D: Okay, and is the swelling in kind of one spot of your leg or is it most of the leg?
P: It's just the calf. I would say more like just the lower leg area.
D: Okay. And if you notice any skin changes, like redness or temperature, like, it feels hot to touch.
P: Maybe a little bit. I haven't really noticed it too much.
D: Okay, and do you have a history of, like, varicose veins or anything like that?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay, so when did the coughing up blood start?
P: Just this morning, actually. So just, like, I would say a couple hours ago.
D: Okay. And how much blood are you coughing up?
P: Just some on, like, I just noticed on the tissue, like, just some spots that I noticed every time that I'm like, yeah, I would have to cough it up. Maybe, like, in the last couple hours. I've had three episodes of that where I've noticed blood on the tissue.
D: I see. And did you ever cough prior to this?
P: No, not really. Okay. And.
D: Have you been experiencing any infectious symptoms, like red or runny eyes, runny nose, sore throat?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Have you been having any chest pain or shortness of breath?
P: No chest pain, but I do feel like I do have to take, like, a deeper breath. Like, just. I've been feeling it this morning a little bit. It's just kind of a bit of uneasy breathing.
D: Okay, so it has been more difficult to breathe. And is that at rest as well? Do you feel that kind of sensation? Yeah.
P: Even right now? Just a little bit. Like, it's. It's not anything that I'm too worried about, but it is there.
D: Okay. Do you have any pain if you have it? I could take a deep breath in.
P: No, I don't know. I don't really have any pain.
D: Okay, and do you feel like your heart's racing or beating really fast?
P: I do feel like my heart is beating, like, faster, especially today, but, yeah, I don't know.
D: All right, and how about your breathing? Do you feel like you're breathing faster?
P: No breathing? I feel like it's around the same.
D: Okay, and have you had any lightheadedness or dizziness or feeling like you're gonna pass out?
P: No. Okay.
D: And have you had any wheezing?
P: No wheezing.
D: All right, have you had any abdominal pain?
P: No abdominal pain.
D: Any nausea or vomiting?
P: Nope.
D: You had any diarrhea?
P: No. Diarrhea? No.
D: How about any urinary problems, like pain or frequency?
P: Nope.
D: Have you had any skin changes or rashes?
P: No.
D: Okay, and how about any other, like, joint pains, muscle aches?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: All right, and have you ever had a DBT before?
P: No, I've never had anything like that.
D: Okay.
P: Or.
D: Yeah, like a deep vein thrombosis or have you had a pulmonary embolism before?
P: No, I've never had anything like that before.
D: Okay. Have you been diagnosed with any medical conditions in the past?
P: I do have. So with my knee, and then I do have high blood pressure. I have diabetes.
D: Okay, and was it a knee replacement you had done?
P: Yeah.
D: Okay, and do you take any medications for the blood pressure and diabetes?
P: Yeah, so for the blood pressure, I'm taking a medication called Ramapril, and then for diabetes, I'm taking metformin.
D: Okay. Have you needed, like, insulin for diabetes before?
P: No, I've never had to use insulin.
D: Okay, and do you take any other medications, either prescribed or over the counter?
P: No. Nothing else? Actually, I do take some multivitamins, but besides that, nothing.
D: All right, and do you have any allergies to medications?
P: Not that I know of. Okay.
D: And any hospitalizations or surgeries in the past besides the knee surgery last week?
P: No.
D: All right, so you've been healthy otherwise, And I'm not sure I asked this. I'm Wondering if you've had any fevers or chills?
P: No, not really.
D: Okay. How about any night sweats?
P: Nope.
D: All right. And has your weight been stable over the last several months or have you had any changes?
P: Yeah, it's been pretty stable.
D: Okay, thank you. I just wanted to clarify a few things there.
P: And.
D: Currently, can you tell me about where you're living and who you're living with?
P: Yeah, so I'm living with my wife in a house. I do have two kids, but they're off to college right now, so it's just us two.
D: Okay. And what do you do for work?
P: Yeah, so I actually work as a mechanic. And right now I'm kind of off of work with. I just need to recover and kind of get that physiotherapy done and then I can return hopefully in a month or two.
D: Okay. Yeah, I need to recover after the knee surgery. Okay.
P: And.
D: Do you smoke cigarettes?
P: I used to, but I quit when I was in my 30s. I used to smoke, like probably a pack a day between my 20s and 30s.
D: Okay, it sounds like. Yeah.
P: You quit.
D: About 20 years ago then? Yeah. Okay. And do you drink alcohol?
P: No. Okay.
D: How about using any other recreational drugs?
P: No other drugs. Okay.
D: And in the family, are there any heart conditions or lung conditions?
P: No, not that I know of. Okay.
D: And anybody in the family have bleeding disorder or clotting disorder?
P: No, not. Not that I'm aware of.
D: Okay. Have you heard of anybody in the family having. I know you said you haven't had this before, but anybody in the family having a deep vein thrombosis or pe?
P: Not that I've. No, not really.
D: Okay, so that was everything that I wanted to ask about on history. Today we'll do a physical exam. I'll listen to your chest and have a look at your leg. We'll also order some imaging studies at the ct. PA it's called. But before we go ahead with that, was there anything else that you wanted to add?
P: No, I think that's all.
D: Okay, so we'll get the lab work started as well as the imaging ordered. It will look for to see if there is any pulmonary embolism present because with the surgery last week and being immobilized for a period of time, it is a risk factor for it. And leg swelling with coughing up blood can be symptoms of this. So we'll want to make sure.
P: To.
D: Investigate for a pulmonary embolism.
P: Okay, sounds good. Thank you so much.
D: Sounds good.
P: Thank you.
