D: I heard that you've been having some difficulty breathing and you've been coughing. Can you tell? A little. Tell me a little bit more about that.
P: Yeah, so a couple of days ago I just started to not feel so well and I've been having this cough and trouble breathing.
D: Okay. Have you ever had anything like this before?
P: I do have a cough regularly, but I mean, I think that's related to maybe smoking. It's something that was going on for a few years. This cough's a little bit different.
D: Okay, in what way is this different?
P: It's been happening more often throughout the day and. And bringing up more mucus, it seems like.
D: Okay, and you said it started a couple days ago, is that correct?
P: Yeah, I think Monday. So. Yeah, I guess like three days ago then.
D: Okay, and since you noticed it, has it gotten worse over those three days?
P: Yeah, I would say today's the worst day. I've continually felt sick.
D: Okay, and how frequently are you coughing?
P: I would say maybe a couple of times per hour. I'm filling up some tissues with sputum.
D: Okay, and what does that. What does that sputum look like?
P: It's like a dark, greenish yellow color.
D: Okay. Okay. And is there anything that you've changed recently in your life or any kind of things that have provoked your cough that you know of?
P: No, I can't think of anything. I've been kind of sticking to my regular routines.
D: Okay, and is there anything that makes. Makes it worse, say any position or anything that you do in your day to day routine that you find makes you cough more?
P: Not really. I can't. I can't think of anything.
D: Okay, and have you taken any medicine or anything to try to help with this?
P: No, I do have a little bit of pain, so I did take some Tylenol and some Advil over the last few days, but that's about it.
D: Okay. Okay. Did you find that they helped at all?
P: A little bit, yeah. But it would just kind of take the edge off of the pain for a little bit and it came back.
D: And what kind of pain is it that you're.
P: It's kind of a sharp pain over on the. Like the right side of my chest. Like maybe belly area.
D: Okay. Okay. The right side of your chest, Belly area. Okay. So is that pain? Is it. Did it start around the same time as the call?
P: Yeah, I think it might have started a little bit after.
D: Okay, and is this a pain that you've ever had before?
P: No, I haven't had anything like this happen before.
D: Okay. Is the pain primarily There when you cough or is it present at all times?
P: I would say more so when I cough or if I'm like taking a big breath. Yeah, kind of after. After I have a coughing episode, I have a deep breath and I really will feel the pain then.
D: Okay. And you said that it's a sharp pain?
P: Yeah, yeah, more of a sharp pain.
D: Okay. Okay. And is it any worse when you're doing activity, like when you're up and walking?
P: No, don't notice it with any activity.
D: Okay. Okay. Since this coughing and this right sided pain that you're talking about began, have you noticed any fevers?
P: I think yeah, I've been hot the last few days and I checked my temperature earlier today and it was like 38.6. So that was one of the reasons why I wanted to come in, actually.
D: Okay. Okay. Well, I'm glad that. I'm really glad that you came in because, yeah, we really want to get this looked into. Have you been around anyone that's been sick recently?
P: No, but I do some volunteer work at one of the homeless shelters a few times a week, so I am around a lot of people.
D: Okay, and have you traveled anywhere recently?
P: No, I've been at home and doing the volunteer work.
D: Okay. Okay. And can you just give me an idea of any. Do you have any chronic conditions that you see your family doctor for regularly or anything you take medication for?
P: Yeah, I have type 2 diabetes and I take metformin, I think an SGLT2 inhibitor, and then I use insulin for that as well and have some. It's affected my kidneys as well. The diabetes, I mean.
D: Okay. Do you have a history of high blood pressure?
P: I do, yes.
D: Okay. Do you take medication for that?
P: Oh, yeah, I do. It starts with an A, I think Amlodipine.
D: Okay. Okay. And do you have any history of heart problems?
P: No, not that I know of. I haven't really had any chest pain on the left side anyway.
D: So you said that you have had a cough for a really long time, a drier cough than you're having now. But is that something you've seen the doctor for?
P: Oh, yeah, I think it was called like bronchitis in the past or something. Something like that. One of the doctor, my family doctor told me it was because I was a smoker.
D: Okay. So just to make sure, I have your list of medications you take Amlodipine, insulin, metformin, an SGLT2 inhibitor, you think anything else?
P: And then. Yeah, amlodipine. Yeah, I think that that's everything. A multivitamin too.
D: Okay, cool. And I just wanted to ask you a few questions about your lifestyle in general. Do you live here in town?
P: I do, yeah. I live with my wife in a house nearby.
D: Okay, cool. And you mentioned that you're a smoker.
P: Yeah, so I've spoken For the last 30 years or so about a pack per day.
D: Okay. Do you drink alcohol?
P: No, I don't.
D: Do you use any other substances?
P: I don't know.
D: Okay. And do you have any family history of respiratory or heart problems?
P: Yeah, my dad actually had a heart attack. He was in his 70s, I think my mom had high blood pressure, but other than that, no.
D: Okay. And do you have any allergies?
P: I think just environmental stuff. No medications I'm aware of.
D: Okay. Okay. Well, thank you for sharing all of that with me. Going to go and go over it with the physician that I'm working with, and we'll kind of come back and let you know about the next steps.
P: Okay, thank you. That sounds good.
