D: How may I help you?
P: Hi, I'm here because I had this cough for a couple of days and now my voice still hasn't recovered. It sounds really hoarse and I can't speak as well, so I was just wondering if you can give me something for that.
D: Possibly. We will see. I just gotta ask a few questions first and we'll do a physical exam as well afterwards. But certainly we'll look into what is causing your symptoms. So you mentioned the cough. When did that exactly start?
P: That started three days ago.
D: Okay. And have you had a cough before?
P: Like before the three days you mean? Yeah, no, I was pretty healthy before then.
D: I see. And with the cough, are you producing any phlegm or sputum?
P: No, it's pretty dry.
D: Okay. Have you noticed any blood?
P: Nope.
D: All right. And have you had a wheeze?
P: No, not. No, nothing like that.
D: Alright. And have you had any chest pain with the cough?
P: No.
D: Alright. And you noticed that your voice changed and that was about three days ago as well?
P: Yeah. No, actually, that started about yesterday. Yeah, yesterday in the afternoon.
D: Okay. And any triggers for this? Like, were you at any events that you had to be kind of speaking loudly or talking a lot or anything where you're straining your voice?
P: No, no, I wasn't. I was like. I had school, I came home, I didn't do anything like that.
D: Okay, so it sounds. Yeah, I just sort of came on on its own. All right. And have you had any like eye redness or discharge or a runny nose?
P: I had a runny nose before, but no eye discharge.
D: Okay. With the runny nose. What. Or can you describe the mucus that was coming out?
P: Oh, it was. It was clear.
D: And has that gone away now? And when was the runny nose?
P: That's gone. Yeah, that's gone. That went away about like. Yeah, two days ago maybe.
D: I see. And have you had a sore throat or do you have a sore throat?
P: I have. So it hurts because I'm coughing, but it doesn't seem like it's my actual throat.
D: All right, is there any pain with swallowing, food or liquids?
P: No.
D: Okay. And have you had any fevers or chills?
P: No.
D: Or any night sweats?
P: No.
D: And any changes to your weight recently?
P: I've had some weight gain over the past like six months.
D: Okay, that's great. And how about how much?
P: Just maybe like five, ten pounds. Five to ten pounds? Somewhere around there.
D: Okay, that's good. And have you had any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: And how about any abdominal pain?
P: No.
D: Any diarrhea?
P: No.
D: Or any Urinary problems?
P: No.
D: Have you had any muscle aches or joint pains?
P: No.
D: Okay. And have you had any loss of your taste or sense of smell?
P: No.
D: Okay. And any skin changes or rashes?
P: Nope, nothing like that.
D: Okay, and so you've been experiencing. So you had a runny nose that's gone away and now been having this cough for the past. Dry cough the past three days and lost your voice yesterday. Have you been experiencing any other symptoms?
P: No other symptoms.
D: All right. In the past, have you been diagnosed with any medical conditions?
P: No, I've been pretty healthy.
D: That's great. And have you been. Have you had any allergies before?
P: No.
D: Okay. And do you take any medications regularly?
P: I just take some multivitamins.
D: Okay. And are you aware if your immunizations are up to date?
P: So I have everything except for that HPV vaccine.
D: Okay. Do you have a plan to get that one or.
P: I think so. I'm just waiting to follow up with my family doctor about that.
D: Okay, That's a good idea. For sure. So it's great that you have a plan for that. For that. Yeah. It can be really helpful for preventing cervical cancer, as I'm sure you'll talk to with a family doctor about. Yeah. And have you had any hospitalizations or any surgeries?
P: No.
D: Okay. And whereabouts are you living right now, and who are you living with?
P: I live with my parents and my two younger siblings. We live in a house.
D: Has anybody else been sick or have similar symptoms?
P: No, no one at home's been sick.
D: Okay, and how about anybody at school or work or anything like that that you've been around who's been sick?
P: So one of my friends actually had a runny nose and a cough as well a couple days ago, but she seems to be better now, and her voice is. Okay.
D: Okay. And have you traveled anywhere outside of the city or province?
P: No. No, not recently.
D: All right, and in the home, is there any, like. Are you exposed to any violence of any sort, like physical or emotional, either yourself or witnessing?
P: No.
D: Okay. And what grade are you in?
P: I'm in grade seven or. Yeah, grade seven now.
D: Oh, awesome. And is there any smoking in the home?
P: No, no one smokes at home.
D: Okay. And then anybody in the family have any heart or lung conditions?
P: Heart or lung? I know, like, heart disease runs on my father's side of the family. I'm not really sure, like, exactly what. What kind of diseases, though.
D: Okay. And I remember sometimes people kind of in this age group might experience with either drugs or alcohol. Have your friends done that or yourself.
P: I know, like, some of my friends have tried alcohol and tried marijuana, but I haven't experimented yet.
D: Okay, that's good. And that's all I wanted to ask today on History. Was there anything else that you wanted to add?
P: Well, nothing that I want to add. Just how do you think I can make this. Make my voice better? And how long will I have this hoarse voice?
D: Yeah. So right now it's sounding like a viral type illness where there's inflammation of the vocal cords with having the cough and the runny nose a couple of days ago. And actually, this reminds me that. Have you. I'm not sure if I asked fevers or chills, if you have any?
P: No, I haven't.
D: Okay. And so for. If it is a viral infection, then it's just supportive kind of management. So that will mean trying to stay as hydrated as you possibly can over these next next few days. And then also you can use things like, if they help, like lozenges or something along those lines. But it will just take some time for it to come back on its own. A few days to a couple of weeks sometimes. And the cough could possibly last for two to four weeks after. After having a viral type illness. Yeah. So it could be quite a few weeks that the symptoms last for. But since you're having a cough and these symptoms could overlap with COVID we'll want to get a Covid swab today as well and kind of go from there.
P: Okay. Okay, that sounds good. Thank you.
