D: Brings you in here today.
P: I bring in my son today because I've noticed he's been having this cough. Sometimes he'll have it at night and he'll have some wheezing and difficulties breathing as well.
D: Okay, and when did this all start?
P: So I've been noticing it over the last several months. It's been happening a couple of times per week where he'll get this cough and at nighttime and. Yeah, so over the last several months.
D: Okay, and did it start with coughing or like the shortness of breath? What? Did it kind of start with more of the.
P: Coughing? Yeah, you would just get it at nighttime and then sometimes he would get it like at school as well. Or even if he went over to one of his friends houses, sometimes he would come home and. Or afterwards he would have a cough and a wheeze and be short of breath.
D: Okay, and so is it usually after he's worked himself up and like exercised or like just been really active?
P: Yeah, definitely. I've noticed it after those times for.
D: For sure. Okay, and are these the coughing? Is it wet or dry?
P: It's. It's a dry cough.
D: Dry cough. Okay, so no yellow green material or blood coughed up?
P: No, nothing like that coughed up.
D: Okay. And you're saying you also hear wheezing, right?
P: Yeah, I'll hear a wheeze. He has this like high pitched whistling sound when he exhales.
D: Okay, and has he at all. Had this happened before or is this the first time this is happening, like.
P: When he was really young? I think like two. He had like bronchiolitis or something like that.
D: I think it was called.
P: He had a cough and like a wheeze at the. At that time, but I think it was because of a, like an infection or viral.
D: A viral illness I seen. Has he had any sore throat, runny nose, cold like symptoms at all recently?
P: No, he hasn't had anything like that.
D: Okay. Okay. So his symptoms mainly occur when he's very active. So they kind of come and go. Have you tried at all anything that has helped with his symptoms?
P: No, I haven't tried anything.
D: Okay. Any kind of dizziness, changes in his behavior at all from being very irritable to very fatigued, anything like that?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Any fevers or chills?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any recent travel or contact with someone who's been sick?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any changes in his bowel movements?
P: No, he hasn't had any diarrhea, so no diarrhea, no constipation.
D: Okay. And any Changes in his appetite at all?
P: No, he's been eating and growing well.
D: Any changes in his weight?
P: Yeah, yeah, he's been gaining weight over the last. Over the last little while, I think he's been gaining weight appropriately.
D: Okay. Do you find that his symptoms get worse in any particular season, like the winter or anything like that?
P: Yeah, I mean, sometimes, I guess, like in a. In the fall or when the seasons change, he does get, like, itchy eyes and, like, a runny nose. I think he does have maybe some environmental allergies.
D: Okay. Okay. And at home or at school, any exposure to, like, fumes, dust, or animals?
P: No animals at home, but the friend's house he goes over to, sometimes they have a cat there.
D: Okay. And does. Does he get those symptoms at his friend's house?
P: Yeah, sometimes he'll come, he'll have a bit of a cough, and you can hear a whee sometimes after it goes away relatively quickly, like within 30 to 60 minutes and. But. Yeah.
D: Okay. Any past medical conditions that he's been diagnosed with?
P: No, he just had that. Yeah. Episode of, I think, bronchiolitis when he was young, but that was it.
D: Okay. Any medications that he has to take regularly? No, no. Any allergies to any medications? No, no. Any allergies to any environmental or food factors?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: Okay. Has he had any rashes at all previously?
P: No, he hasn't had any. Any rashes.
D: Okay. And any hospitalizations or surgeries? Nope. Okay. And any family history of any heart or lung conditions, any history of asthma at all?
P: Yeah, his mom has asthma, and she uses an inhaler daily for it.
D: Okay, Has. When did the mom get diagnosed with asthma? Was it during childhood?
P: Yeah, she was younger. Ever since I've known her, she's. She's had. She's had asthma. Hasn't had any real, I guess, exacerbations that I've noticed or been able to control her symptoms with. With inhalers.
D: Okay. And for him, how many times would you say he's having these episodes in an average week now?
P: I would say 2.
D: 2. And is he getting any of these symptoms at nighttime, like waking him up?
P: He is, yeah.
D: It's.
P: It is happening at night.
D: Okay. And then has he missed any days of school due to this?
P: Yeah, he's missed a couple of days in the past month because he just didn't sleep well and then not feeling good the next day, so, yeah, he has.
D: Okay. Yeah. So. And any issues with the mother's pregnancy with him at all?
P: No, she's Healthy. And the delivery was at term with a normal body weight or birth weight, rather. And he was healthy when he was born.
D: So no prolonged stay in the NICU or hospital after that?
P: No, he was able to go home, luckily.
D: Okay. And afterwards, has he been meeting all his milestones, like his motor, gross motor fine motor, social skills and growth and all of those? Has he been meeting them? Well.
P: He has, yeah. Yeah, he's been meeting all his milestones and growing well.
D: Okay. And any at all issues from the school in terms of learning difficulties or anything like that?
P: No, he's been doing well in school.
D: Okay, that's good. Does he have any siblings?
P: No, he's. It's just him. He's your only child.
D: Okay. And what's the home situation like? Who does he live with?
P: So it's myself and my wife, which is his mom. And so it's just us three, and we live in a. In a house.
D: Okay. And anyone in the household. Does anyone smoke at all?
P: No, there aren't any smokers in the home.
D: Okay. And any new carpets or any dust or any. Or mold or anything like that in the house?
P: There is a carpet in the basement that he uses that as his playroom sometimes.
D: Okay. Okay. Yeah. So those are all the questions I had. Do you have any questions at all?
P: Yeah, I was just wondering if this could be maybe asthma as well.
D: Yeah. So definitely that's something that's at the top of our head right now, especially due to his age and the symptoms that he's been having after exertion in particular, and the family history of asthma as well. So definitely that's something that we want to investigate. So what we'll do for him is first we'll do like a full physical examination, listen to his lungs, and just assess his breathing. And then afterwards, we will order some tests for him. So he's six years old, right?
P: He is, yes.
D: Okay. So we'll see if we can do something called a pulmonary function test. Sometimes it depends on the child if they're able to follow instructions. And so that test requires completely breathing out and following some instructions during the test. So since he's 6, he might be able to do that. We can try that. And then afterwards, we'll see if he requires anything like an allergy testing, or we might need to help manage his symptoms with a puffer, for example, like ventolin and inhaled corticosteroid. But those are just some discussions we'll have in the near future after we've done all these investigations. Okay, great.
P: Thank you.
D: You're welcome. Take care. Bye.
