D: How may I help you today?
P: Hi. So for the past week or so, I've had this cough and some shortness of breath. I feel hot and I just feel kind of.
D: Fuzzy.
P: Like I just. I can't concentrate on things very well. I get confused sometimes. So I thought I'll come to you.
D: To get it checked out. Yeah, that was a really good idea to come in to get checked out. So can you. I'll ask you about each symptom a little bit. So starting with the shortness of breath, can you tell me how bad your shortness of breath has been?
P: It's been. Sometimes it's not so bad. Other times it's really bad. At first it wasn't that bad, but now, like, I'm having a hard time taking a deep breath in. It hurts, and I just feel like I can't walk, like, two blocks. Even before getting short of breath and.
D: Before this week, how much. Did you ever feel short of breath before this?
P: No. Nothing like this before?
D: No. Okay. Okay. And do you feel that the shortness of breath has gotten kind of worse over time?
P: Yeah, I think so.
D: And what about the cough? Did that start at the same time as did as the difficulty with breathing?
P: It started before the difficulty with breathing.
D: Is it a dry cough or a wet cough?
P: It was a dry cough at first, but now I'm seeing some phlegm and it looks kind of yellow.
D: Have you seen any blood in this?
P: No.
D: And are you hearing any wheezing sounds?
P: Yeah, a little bit.
D: How. And has the cough sort of improved or gotten worse over time?
P: It's gotten worse.
D: Okay. And you mentioned you also, you also have a fever. Did you check your temperature?
P: I did. It was like 38.5 this morning.
D: And have you been checking your fever this past week, or was that the first time you.
P: It's the first time I checked it. I felt hot, though, in the past, and I felt like I had chills.
D: Yeah. You're also feeling a little bit fuzzy.
P: When did that start?
D: And can you explain that? A little bit.
P: That started about, I think, like, yesterday morning. I just feel fuzzy, like I can't concentrate on things as much as I.
D: Used to be able to.
P: And the other day I was cooking something, and then I forgot I was cooking it. Yeah, Just a little bit confused.
D: Okay. Did you leave the stove on?
P: No, no, I hadn't turned it off. I just forgot. I left, like, the pot on the stove and made dinner.
D: Okay. Okay. And you feel that this is very new, that this has not been going on for weeks? Or months where you forget things or are having difficulties at concentration?
P: No, this has never happened before.
D: Okay. I'm gonna ask you about a couple of other symptoms just to make sure that you don't have any other. Just get a full picture. So do you have a headache at all?
P: No, no headache.
D: Okay. Any changes in your vision or your hearing that is. That has been very sudden or that has happened over the past week?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Any change in your taste, sense of. No sense of taste?
P: No.
D: Okay. And any sort of runny nose or congestion?
P: A little bit of a runny nose, yeah.
D: And what's that discharge? Like, what color?
P: It's also yellow.
D: Any sore throat?
P: No, no sore throat.
D: Okay. And any chest pain?
P: Yeah, it hurts when I try to take a deep breath in.
D: When did that start?
P: That started about the same time as my shortness of breath.
D: Okay. And any. Do you feel like your heart is racing?
P: No, not really. No.
D: Okay. Do you get any chest pain otherwise in this week or when you're not trying to take a deep breath?
P: No, there's no chest pain at rest.
D: Where is your chest pain?
P: It kind of feels like central to my chest. Yeah, just in the chest area. It doesn't radiate to anywhere else.
D: Okay. Okay. Does it get better right away after you. To stop taking that deep. Stop doing deep breathing?
P: No. Otherwise it doesn't hurt?
D: It doesn't. Okay. Very good.
P: All right.
D: And any belly pain?
P: No.
D: Any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Any changes in your bowel movement, like diarrhea or constipation that is new in the past week or two weeks or so?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any difficulties with peeing? Do you have any pain or any increase in how often you're going to the bathroom or how urgently you need to get to the bathroom? Anything like that?
P: No, no.
D: Okay. Any pains in your joints or muscles?
P: Nope.
D: Any fatigue in the past week?
P: Yeah, I've been feeling tired.
D: Any. Any weight loss recently?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any night sweats? Do you feel like you're drenched in sweat at night?
P: No, no night sweats, but I do feel chills.
D: Yeah. And any swelling in your belly or your feet and your legs?
P: No.
D: Okay. Okay. Can you tell me about any medical conditions that you might have? Sure, sure.
P: I had a DVT two years ago. I have diabetes, for which I am on insulin and I have hypothyroid.
D: Okay. I've got to say, it's quite impressive that you know the word.
P: Bet most people don't know that I've had a blood clot.
D: So are you on any medications other than the insulin?
P: Yes, I'm on insulin and I'm on Synthroid. I'm on aspirin as well. Like baby aspirin.
D: Have you ever had any copd?
P: No.
D: Ever been diagnosed with asthma?
P: No.
D: Heart attack or any heart related problems?
P: No.
D: Okay. Okay. Have you had any hospitalizations in the past?
P: No, actually, sorry, I have for the dvt? Yeah, yeah, yeah, I see.
D: Any surgeries? No, no surgeries. Okay. What. What caused your dvt? Do you remember or do you know?
P: I was. I was flying somewhere. I was. Well, I was flying back from somewhere and I got off the plane and I guess they found blood clots.
D: I see, I see. Okay. Any allergies to medications, environmental allergies, food allergies? Anything?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: Okay. And I forgot to ask, in terms of medications, are you taking anything over the counter? Any herbal pills, any vitamins, etc?
P: Just some calcium, Vitamin D. Well, that's great.
D: Yeah, that's great. Yeah, that's very important at that, you know, for women above the age of 65, I think 50. Okay. So in terms of your living situation, are you living with someone? Are you living alone?
P: I live with my husband.
D: Okay. And are you. Is there anybody else in the house? Any pets, animals?
P: No, we don't have any pets or animals.
D: And are you able to take care of things like dressing changing, going to the bathroom on your own? Do you need help?
P: No, I am pretty independent.
D: What about things like groceries or taking care of finances?
P: No, I'm pretty independent in that aspect as well.
D: Okay, that's wonderful. Have you had any recent travels?
P: No, I've been trying to stay at.
D: Home because of COVID That's good. And any, do you think, any exposures to anyone who could possibly be sick for you or your husband?
P: I mean, we. We do laundry at a laundromat, but other than that, no.
D: Okay. Okay. All right. Well, I think I have all the information I need today. Let me go talk to my. My preceptor and will come and do a physical exam. So listen to your chest and do a few lab tests to draw your blood and do a chest X ray likely and then go from there. It sounds like with the fuzzy feeling, the fevers, the difficulties breathing, I think it would be a good idea for you to stay here for a couple of days maybe, but we'll let you know what happens and what the results. So I'm really glad that you decided to come in today. Do you have any questions for me? No, thank you so much. So the likely diagnosis is a pneumonia, either bacterial or viral, but given.
P: Yeah.
D: Yeah, could be either. Okay.
P: Do I still need to isolate in this case?
D: Oh, that's very true. Yeah. Yep.
P: So.
D: Well, you will be in the hospital, so. Yes, you do. We will be doing a COVID test, but that's a really good point because your symptoms do overlap with COVID symptoms. We will also have you in an isolated room away from other patients until your Covid swabs are back and we know whether. And we'll follow the guidelines put forth by Public Health. Okay, Sure.
