D: How may I help you?
P: Hi. My son has just been sick over the past couple of days. He's just had this cough and stuffy nose and. Yeah, he's also had this rash that just started.
D: Okay, so can you tell me a bit more about the coughs, where it started?
P: Yeah, so the cough started about a week ago. And his stuffy nose. He had a stuffy nose since around the same time. And then those symptoms continued and got a little bit better over the past few days. And then he started having this rash on his face that then kind of went down to his neck.
D: Okay, and is the rash still there right now?
P: Yeah.
D: Okay. And is the cough productive? And is he bringing up sputum?
P: No.
D: Okay. Has he brought up any blood?
P: No.
D: Okay. And can you tell me about the runny nose? What? Can you describe the discharge?
P: Yeah, it's just. It's just a watery discharge. His eyes are also red and kind of. He's been teary or I guess just. Yeah, it's just been like, very watery and red and. Yeah, it's clear discharge.
D: Okay. Has he had a sore throat?
P: No.
D: All right, how about any changes to his sense of smell or taste?
P: He. He hasn't really. Yeah, he hasn't said anything about that.
D: All right, has he had any problems with breathing?
P: No.
D: Okay. Has he mentioned anything about chest pain?
P: No.
D: All right, has he had any fevers or chills?
P: Yeah, he does have a fever, 39.5. I checked yesterday.
D: Okay. Is that the first time that he was noted to have a fever? Yesterday.
P: He has had a fever for the past few days. It was around. It was less, between 37.5 to 38.5, but then yesterday was just. It just kept going up, so I got concerned and thought I should bring him in.
D: Okay, I see. Yeah. It's good that you brought him in. Has he been having any night sweats?
P: No.
D: And how has his weight been over the last several months? Has he been gaining weight? Okay, still?
P: Oh, yeah.
D: That's great. And has he had any wheezing?
P: No.
D: How about any changes to his appetite?
P: He's just been eating less since he's been feeling unwell.
D: Okay.
P: Yeah, but he still. He manages to eat about half the plate, so I guess it's not too bad.
D: And that's been the last few days?
P: Yeah. Yeah.
D: Okay. And has he had any muscle aches or body pains?
P: No, not really.
D: Okay. And are there any exposures that could have possibly caused the skin rash, like changes in, like, laundry detergent or coming into contact with anything on his skin or taking or anything that he was allergic to that he's been around?
P: I don't think so. He was playing outside with the neighbors, with the neighbor's kids, but I don't think he came into contact. I'm not sure.
D: Okay. Has he been diagnosed with any medical conditions before?
P: No, he's pretty healthy.
D: Okay. And sorry, just to go back to the symptoms, I missed a few questions here. Does he have any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: How about any diarrhea?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any abdominal pain?
P: Nope.
D: Or any urinary problems?
P: No. No.
D: Okay, and so he hasn't been diagnosed with any medical conditions before. Does he take any medications regularly, like prescribed or over the counter?
P: No, he doesn't.
D: All right, and any allergies to medications or environment that you're aware of?
P: No.
D: Okay. And are his immunizations up to date?
P: Well, no, I don't vaccinate my kids. I'm just. I'm worried that they'll get autism.
D: Okay. Yeah, that. Well, it's important to know today that he's not vaccinated, because certainly that will influence what we're thinking about in terms of what could be causing the symptoms. And we can discuss, I guess, more about the vaccination procedures and whatnot later, but. Okay, so he's not currently vaccinated. And have there been any concerns with his growth or development? No, he's been meeting all of the milestones and doing well at school.
P: Yeah.
D: Okay. And in terms of the pregnancy, were there any complications during the pregnancy, like gestational diabetes or. Or high blood pressure?
P: I did have gestational diabetes.
D: Sorry, I was going to. Yeah. Did that require insulin or.
P: Yeah, I did have to take insulin. He was. He was also a pretty big baby when he was born. We had to. I had to get. Get a C section done.
D: Okay. Were there any complications with the. With the. Proceed with the surgery?
P: No. No. No complications at all.
D: Okay. Did he have any, like, breathing problems or jaundice or any reasons to stay in the hospital when. When he was born?
P: No, he didn't.
D: Okay, that's good. And who's he living with? And who's the primary caregiver?
P: Currently, I'm the primary caregiver. He's got an older brother who's seven years old and his dad. It's the four of us. And we also have a dog.
D: Okay. Any allergies to the dog or to pets at all?
P: No.
D: Okay. And any, like, reasons or concerns for either physical or emotional abuse in the home?
P: No.
D: Okay. And any family history of any heart or lung problems?
P: No.
D: How about a family history of any bleeding disorders or clotting disorders or cancers?
P: No.
D: Okay. So that was everything that I think I wanted to ask about on history. So it sounds like she's had, well, a cough, a runny nose, some red eyes with some tearing, as well as a rash that started and a fever. Was there any other symptoms?
P: No.
D: All right, so next we'll go on to the physical exam. We'll want to have a look at the rash and get the vitals, but there is a concern that this could be measles. And so it'll be important to have supportive management and ensure that it's not passed on to anybody else. That reminds me. Yeah. He was out playing with other children. Were any other kids experiencing similar symptoms?
P: I'm not sure. I guess I need to talk to their parents now.
D: Yeah, it would be a good idea to. What the. Yeah. Contact and see, just to make sure that we're treating everybody.
P: Sure.
D: Appropriately. And then we can talk more about the vaccination later.
P: Sure.
