D: Can you just tell me a little bit about what brings you in here today?
P: Yeah, I. I have a cough.
D: Okay, and what kind of cough? Is it like a dry cough or is it more like a productive cough?
P: I always seem to bring up some gunk when I cough.
D: Okay, and what. What color is this gunk?
P: It's green, sometimes yellowish.
D: Okay, and have you noticed at all any kind of blood in the cough?
P: No blood.
D: Okay, and how much of the gunk or the sputum would you say you bring up every day?
P: A couple of Kleenexes I'll use, but so not that much.
D: Okay, and when did this start?
P: It's really hard to say. I've had a cough for the past few years now, but I feel like it's getting worse.
D: Okay, and is your cough just constant or does it come and go?
P: I do cough throughout the day, but I find it's worse in the morning.
D: Okay, and is there anything that brings on your cough?
P: I can't think of anything that triggers the cough. Just worse when I get up in the morning.
D: Okay, and you mentioned you've been having this cough over the past few years. Has it been getting worse at all?
P: Yeah, I would say the cough's been getting worse the last few years. Slowly, though.
D: Okay, and have you had any previous episodes of this cough with the sputum, like, gunk. Gunky material before?
P: Yeah, I've been having this ongoing for the last few years.
D: Okay, and is there anything that you do or have tried that's made your coughing get either better or worse?
P: If I take a deep breath in, it seems to make the cough worse, and nothing really helps the cough go away, though.
D: Okay, and other than that, have you been having any other symptoms like a runny nose, a sore throat, difficulty breathing, anything like that?
P: No.
D: Okay, and have you recently traveled outside of the country?
P: Haven't traveled anywhere.
D: Okay, and have you noticed any other symptoms like fevers or chills?
P: No fever and no chills.
D: Okay. Any night sweats?
P: No night sweats.
D: Okay. Any increased fatigue or just feeling tired overall?
P: Yeah, these last few months, my energy has been low. I've been feeling a lot more tired than usual.
D: Okay, and have you noticed at all any kind of swelling in your hands, feet, ankles?
P: I think they're always a little swollen, but I might have just gained a few pounds over the years.
D: Okay, and have you been having any palpitations, like a racing heart or any chest pain at all?
P: No chest pain.
D: Okay, and how about shortness of breath?
P: I only have trouble breathing if I Walk a few blocks or go up a few flights of stairs into my apartment.
D: Okay. Have you been having any kind of urinary issues?
P: Only at nighttime. I seem to have to get up a lot to use the bathroom.
D: Okay. And how about your bowel movements? Any constipation or diarrhea?
P: No bowel issues.
D: Okay. And have you been getting enough sleep?
P: Yeah, I would. Or. Sorry. No, my sleep has been. Has been poor.
D: Okay, and do you find that you wake up during the night to take a breath or anything like that?
P: No, I haven't had to wake up in the middle of the night short of breath or anything like that.
D: Okay. And do you ever have to use multiple pillows?
P: No, I just use one pillow.
D: Okay. And have you noticed you have any significant weight loss or weight gain in the last few. Few months?
P: I maybe lost five pounds in the last few months. I wasn't even. I haven't been trying to lose weight, but doesn't hurt, though, as I've lost. I've gained a few pounds over the years, so I don't mind.
D: And how has your appetite been? Like.
P: Appetite's been good. I feel like I've been eating normally.
D: Okay. And have you had any recent infections at all?
P: No recent infections.
D: Okay, And I think I mentioned this before, but any runny nose, sore throat, any of those viral symptoms?
P: No runny nose, no sore throat, been feeling good.
D: Awesome. And have you had. Have you been exposed to anyone with tuberculosis in the past?
P: No, I actually had a tuberculosis test for work, and it was normal.
D: Okay, and have you been diagnosed with any medical conditions at all, like high blood pressure, diabetes?
P: My blood pressure has been high, and that was diagnosed in the last few years.
D: Okay. And do you take any medications for your blood pressure?
P: Yes, I take lisinopril.
D: Okay. And do you have any allergies to any medications at all?
P: None that I can think of.
D: Okay. And have you been hospitalized at all before?
P: No.
D: And do you have any ill contacts near you, anyone that has been sick around you recently?
P: No ill contacts and. Sorry, I. For hospitalizations. I did have a C section for the birth of my daughter, and I was in the hospital for a few days for that.
D: Okay. But nothing else? No. Okay. And have you had any other surgeries other than your C section?
P: No, just the C section.
D: Okay. And in terms of your family history, has anyone had any cardiovascular issues or any cancers?
P: My father had a heart attack when he was 78, and he unfortunately passed away from it, but no cancer in the family.
D: Okay. Any, like, asthma in the family?
P: Not that I can think of.
D: Okay. And currently, where do you live? Do you live in an apartment? A house?
P: I live in an apartment with my husband and our daughter.
D: Okay, and do you currently work?
P: Yeah, I work at the local grocery store.
D: Okay, and just in your daily routine, how would you say, how is your diet and exercise like?
P: Diet usually eat one or two meals a day and sometimes snack throughout the day as well. But we eat a variety of meats and vegetables, and so I think our diet is pretty good, but exercise, don't have time for that currently.
D: Okay, and do you use any recreational drugs, like marijuana?
P: No, I would never use that.
D: Okay, how about alcohol?
P: A glass of wine, three or four nights a week.
D: Okay. And is it like a full glass of wine or like, just how much would you say a glass of wine is for you?
P: I would say like 5 or 6 ounces, like a typical glass of wine.
D: And do you smoke at all?
P: I do smoke cigarettes, yes.
D: And how much do you smoke in an average day?
P: Over a pack. One to two packs of cigarettes per day for the last nearly 40 years.
D: Okay. All right, so.
