P: So I've been having issues with just cough that's just been constantly, like bothering me over the past few bit.
D: Okay, when did this. Well, can you tell me a little bit more about the cough itself? Any. Any sputum?
P: So, yeah, it does have some like dark yellow, greenish mucus material every time I cough.
D: That's not.
P: Doesn't always happen, but it's been worse. Like that keeps happening over the last few days.
D: Okay. And any blood in the sputum? No. Okay. And how much have you been bringing up, would you say?
P: I would say every time I bring it up, it's around like 1 teaspoon. Usually 1 teaspoon in a day.
D: Okay. And when did this cough start?
P: So I think it started around like, I would say six months ago. And it's kind of just coming. It just keeps coming and going here and there, but it's recently just starting to get very irritating. Sorry.
D: Okay.
P: And.
D: Any triggers or precipitating events for. For the cough?
P: So like six months ago, I remember I was in. Just in phys ed and we were just doing some laps and that's when I just really started coughing. And yeah, nothing else was really going on. I just feel like when I started running, sometimes I start to cough.
D: Okay. And has the cough been getting worse or staying the same, getting better?
P: I think it was pretty. It was pretty much the same over the last few months, but then over the last week I would say it just got really bad. And over the last few days it's just been getting worse and worse.
D: Okay, so it's been. The cough's been happening on and off up until four days ago, it sounds like. Is the cough happening daily now?
P: Yeah, I would say, like I'm coughing, especially the last few days. Coughing several times a day. It's pretty random. But like I would say throughout the day I'm coughing.
D: Okay. Anything you've tried to make the cough better?
P: I haven't really. I didn't really know what to try. So no, I haven't tried anything.
D: Okay. And anything you've noticed that. That. So I guess, yeah, anything you've noticed that makes it worse?
P: So yeah, just like when I'm doing more activities, especially running, I find I just get like these coughing fits and it just gets worse when I'm running? Yeah, it's pretty annoying because even sometimes when I'm just in class, I just start coughing randomly, but I would say it's the worst when I'm doing activities.
D: Okay. So exercising brings out the cough. Any other symptoms you've been experiencing besides the cough.
P: The only thing that sometimes, like, I panic sometimes when. When I have, like, a really bad coughing fit, especially in gym class, it almost feels like I can't breathe. Breathe. And that's when I get really scared.
D: Okay. Have you been having any nausea or vomiting?
P: No, no nausea or vomiting.
D: Okay. How about any headaches?
P: No, no headaches.
D: Okay. And have you had a fever?
P: I think I felt, like, a little bit warmer in the past few days, but I didn't. I didn't really check.
D: Okay. And have you had any chills?
P: I don't think so. No.
D: Okay. Any of you traveled anywhere recently?
P: No, I've been. I've been home.
D: Okay. Any night sweats?
P: Nope.
D: Okay. Have you had any racing of your heart?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. And have you had any symptoms of fatigue?
P: No, I think my energy levels are fine.
D: Okay. Do you have any chest pain?
P: Sometimes when I cough, like when it's really bad, I sometimes feel like I get some pain in my chest when I'm coughing, but that's only been the case for the last few days, I would say.
D: Okay. Any urinary problems?
P: No. I've been peeing. All right. No issues there.
D: Okay. Any bowel problems?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any issues with your appetite?
P: No, I think I've been eating the same amount.
D: Okay. Any changes to your weight?
P: Nope, still weigh the same.
D: Okay. And any problems with. Sorry. Any recent infections?
P: Like, I feel like I might have a cold, but I think I. Maybe a week ago I had, like, a little bit of a runny nose, so I don't know, I might have a cold.
D: Okay. And these symptoms, cold symptoms you've been feeling for the last a few days?
P: Yeah, I would say almost up to a week now.
D: Okay. And any problems with sleep?
P: I feel like sometimes just in the past few weeks, like, I've started coughing at night and woken myself up, so sleep has been a little bit disturbed over the past few weeks.
D: Any exposures to tuberculosis?
P: No, no, not that I know of.
D: Any exposures to inhalants like smoke or dust or fumes?
P: No, I don't have any pets. Like, there's no, like, moss or anything in my home. No fumes, dust? Yeah, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Okay. And have you been diagnosed with any or treated for any medical conditions in the past?
P: Just. Just, like, with the skin, I have eczema, but nothing else.
D: Okay. Are you allergic to any medications?
P: So I. For my eczema, like, I do have, like, a hydrocortisone cream that I apply, but, yeah, I don't Think I'm allergic to any medications.
D: Okay. Do you have allergies?
P: I do have allergies. Like, sometimes around, like, animals. Like, if I go to the farm or if I'm like, at a zoo and just petting animals, I get. My eczema gets really bad.
D: Okay. And any hospitalizations?
P: No, no, I've never been hospitalized.
D: Okay. Anybody you've been around who's sick?
P: No, I've been pretty much been at home, so no one.
D: All right. And any surgeries?
P: No surgeries.
D: Okay. Any family history of asthma or eczema?
P: I don't know about asthma. My mom does also have, like, similar, like, eczema to me, but yeah, nothing. Nothing else that I know of.
D: Okay. And what are you doing right now for work?
P: So currently, like, I'm not working. I'm a student, just doing some online studying. I'm actually going to college to learn about how to make video games. But yeah, it's all just been at home right now.
D: Okay, and where are you from? Like, are you living at home right now or are you away for school?
P: Yeah, so I. Right now it's all online, so I'm living at home with my mom.
D: Okay. And do you drink alcohol?
P: Not often. Like, just when I'm at, like, parties and like, when I was at school, just maybe sometimes on the weekends, but nothing regularly.
D: Okay. And have you tried any other drugs besides marijuana?
P: Just marijuana. I try sometimes at parties, but nothing like regular. Other than that. Just sometimes I've been offered some pills at parties, but other than that, nothing else.
D: Okay, so it sounds occasional. Okay.
P: Nothing like I'm not addicted or anything to any drugs.
D: Okay. And do you smoke cigarettes?
P: I don't smoke cigarettes, but I do have marijuana once or twice in a week.
D: Okay.
P: And.
D: Can you tell me a little bit about your diet and exercise?
P: So I feel like I'm fairly active even though I cough when I'm exercising. I still play soccer with my friends and on a team. Other than that, I like to go biking. Yes. I feel like I'm still pretty active, but it is getting more difficult as with my cough. Other than that, my diet's been pretty. Pretty good. Like at home especially, I'm getting three meals a day having a balanced diet. So, yeah, I feel I'm doing well there.
D: Okay, great.
