D: What brings you all in today?
P: Hi. So I just brought in my son. So he's five, essentially, when he. So today is.
D: Friday.
P: When he got home from school on Wednesday, he seemed fine, but he.
D: I.
P: You know, that night he started to have a bit of, like, a cough. It just seemed like a little dry cough. But obviously I just wanted to keep him home, keep him safe and not, like, spread anything if he was sick. So he stayed at home on Thursday, and he was, like, having a bit of a cough, and then yesterday it seemed to get a little bit worse, and he was really tired or.
D: Sorry.
P: Today. Today is Friday. He was, like. His cough was, like, getting a bit worse, and I was. I've been taking his temp the whole time, and I got, like, a little high today. What was it? My thermometer says it was high. I'm just, like, trying to remember. I was. It was. It was like over a hundred, though. 101 or something, or maybe 100.1. But anyways, it was. So I just thought I should probably bring him in because I was really worried about him and, you know, thought he could have maybe got Covid at school or something.
D: Yeah, for sure. Okay, so just to clarify, he's had this cough and fever for the past five days.
P: Mm.
D: Okay. Okay, so let's focus on the cough.
P: Sorry, it's been more like three. Three days. Like, Wednesday is when he came home, and then. And then today's Friday, so. Yeah, sorry.
D: Today's Friday. Okay. Okay. Yeah, sure. Is his cough a productive cough, or is it kind of a dry cough?
P: I think it's dry. I haven't noticed him, like, sitting up anything. Yeah, it's just been, like. Little cough.
D: Okay. He's not bringing up any sputum or blood?
P: No, no.
D: Okay, good. Okay. And does he sound wheezy at all to you?
P: No, not that I've noticed.
D: Okay, how about short of breath?
P: I don't think so. Like, he usually. He's a really active kid, and he hasn't been running a lot outside in the past couple days. So maybe he. Maybe he could have been having a harder time breathing, but also I think he's just been tired in general.
D: Okay. Yeah. Okay. Is his coughing getting worse with certain times of the day? Like, is it worse at night, in the morning?
P: I think it's kind of just there the whole day.
D: Okay, and does it. How does it sound? Does it sound like a barky cough? Does it sound, like, harsh? What is. What would you say? The quality of it. Of the sound of the Cough is.
P: This sounds kind of dry. It's not like, super loud. Okay.
D: Okay. And has he ever experienced anything like this in the past?
P: Like, he's had colds before, but I haven't. Like, I haven't. Like, he. This time he kind of had the fever, which is different than, you know, having a regular cold.
D: Okay, and are his symptoms getting worse?
P: I think so, because, yeah, the first day he just seemed, like, a little dry, and then yesterday he's coughing, and today he actually has a fever.
D: Okay, and is he complaining of anything, like chest pain or feeling like his heart's racing?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: No. Okay. Does he have a sore throat?
P: I don't think so.
D: Okay, Is he having any issues swallowing food or fluids?
P: I don't know if he's having trouble swallowing, but he doesn't seem to have a big appetite right now.
D: Okay, and is he. Does he have a blocked nose or a runny nose?
P: Maybe a bit of, like a. Like a runny nose.
D: Okay, and does he have any issues with smell or taste?
P: This morning he really seemed like he wasn't, like, into his breakfast, and I wonder if he's losing his sense of taste a little bit.
D: Okay, how about vision or hearing?
P: I think those are fine.
D: Okay. And is he complaining of any chills or night sweats?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any changes in his hair, nails or skin, like rashes?
P: No, I haven't noticed anything like that.
D: Okay. Any changes in his bowel movements?
P: No.
D: Pardon?
P: I'm sorry. No changes.
D: Okay. No diarrhea? No Constipation? No Blood in the stool?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any changes in his urine?
P: I haven't really been looking, but I don't think so. Okay.
D: Any dizziness or fainting spells?
P: No, just, like, fatigue.
D: Okay. Any confusion or memory loss?
P: No, no.
D: Okay. And is he. Is he an otherwise healthy child?
P: Yeah, absolutely. He hasn't decided about vaccines, and he hasn't had to go to the doctor, like, ever. Like, I mean, he broke his arm once. That was it.
D: Okay, so no past illnesses and, I guess no hospitalizations or surgeries except for the broken ar.
P: Exactly. Like, nothing.
D: Okay. And were things normal with your pregnancy? With him?
P: Yeah, totally.
D: Okay. And then how about as a newborn? Any complications after birth?
P: No, no. Like, everything was really good.
D: Okay. And then did he hit all his milestones up till now?
P: Yeah, totally.
D: Okay. Does he have any allergies?
P: No, no, I don't think so. I mean, like, he hasn't really taken a lot of medicine, so it's hard to say, but, like, nothing so far.
D: Is he up to date with all his immunizations?
P: Yep.
D: Yeah. Okay. And in terms of family history, are there any lung conditions or heart conditions?
P: No, everyone's really healthy.
D: Okay. And are there. And who does he live with and where does he live?
P: He lives with me and my husband, and he has a little sister, like, just in time here.
D: Okay. And is she healthy?
P: Yeah, like, she. Yeah, she's healthy.
D: Okay. Any concerns for old carpets, mold, asbestos, or any environmental issues like that in the home that you're in?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. Has he been around any sick contacts recently?
P: Not. Not, like, outside of school. Like, we know for sure. Not outside of school, but he goes to school right now, so kind of hard to say.
D: Okay.
P: They haven't. They haven't, like, contacted us about anything.
D: Okay, sure. And has he traveled anywhere recently?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. Okay. Well, those are all the questions I had for you today. Was there anything that I missed that you wanted to chat about today?
P: I don't think so. I realized that oftentimes you don't really do much for kids when, you know, when it's just, like, a virus or something. But we do, I guess, need to have a COVID test to go back to the school, even if, you know either way, because they want us to be able to say if, like, the other kids have had an exposure.
D: Yeah.
P: Yeah.
D: Like.
P: Sorry, go ahead.
D: No, go ahead.
P: So that's basically, I just, like, wanted to see if it was that. And, I mean, Keith does have a fever, so that's great. What made me come in? They get scared a little bit, right?
D: Yeah. Okay, so first thing is, first we need to do a Covid swab just to make sure that he either has it or doesn't have it. And those results will come back in 24 to 48 hours. We do suggest, because his symptoms overlap with symptoms of COVID that he isolate for 14 days, and that includes from his younger sister, if possible. And then if the swab comes back negative, there is a chance for false negatives. But also, it could be another viral illness that's going around nowadays if his symptoms get worse. So if he has a really high temperature, it's. He has any neurological symptoms like seizures, or if he's feeling weak, dizzy, if he has any fainting spells, please do take him to the er. And so for now, we'll just wait for those Covid swabs to come back. How does that sound?
P: Yeah, sounds good.
D: Okay, great. No worries. And I should have mentioned if it was just the cough or if he was just short of breath or something like that, and he didn't have the fever, we would add other things, like asthma to the list of things he could be worked up for, but right now it sounds like an infection.
P: Okay. Yeah, that's good to know.
D: All right. Sounds great. Have a good day.
P: You, too. Thanks.
