D: I was wondering if you could tell me a little bit about what brought you in.
P: Yeah, so, like, a couple months ago, I was in the office and they told me that I have asthma. Like, I had it when I was a little kid, and I thought I grew out of it, but apparently not. Or, like, it came back or something. So. Yeah, so they just told me to come back today. I don't really have, like, any issues.
D: Okay, so what. What brought on the appointment in the summertime or a couple of months ago?
P: So, like, I have gym class at school, and my teacher just always thought that, like, I should be able to run faster. Like, I'm, like, a good athlete, but I just couldn't go much faster. And I was, like, saying, I can't really breathe when I'm running that fast. And then, you know, my mom was like, you should probably go. We should probably make an appointment.
D: Okay. And when you're exercising or in gym class, do you get short of breath or do you find that you have difficulty breathing?
P: Yeah. Yeah. Like, I. If I. If I try to run fast, like, I kind of can't breathe anymore, so I kind of stop or go slower.
D: Okay. And how long does it take for the breathing difficulty to go away?
P: Like, if I stop doing, like, the thing I'm doing it. I don't know. Not very long. Like, a couple of minutes.
D: Okay. And does this happen in any other settings?
P: Like, sometimes when it's really cold outside, I'll go out and, like, my chest feels tight and feel like I can't breathe. Kind of sucks. Like, my girlfriend wanted to build a snowman and do snow angels and stuff, and I couldn't do it. Oh, and another time, like, I went to my friend's house and they had, like, a bunch of cats. I felt, like, that wheezy sound. And I thought, like, that time it took, like, longer for the breathing to get easier. Like, I had to leave.
D: Okay, so you've noticed changes to. To your breathing sounds like you've had noisy breathing before?
P: Yeah, mostly just with the cat.
D: Okay.
P: We don't have a cat at my house, so I didn't really think anything of it. And then I went to my friend's house who had a bunch of cats. And then that time, I could actually hear it.
D: Okay, and have you had a cough?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: Okay, and were there anything. Was there anything that you tried, besides the rest to make those symptoms go away?
P: Like, I have the inhaler that the doctor gave me last time. So, yeah, like, I've been using that in gym class now.
D: Okay, how many days per week are you using that?
P: Well, I'm a little confused now because I. The one I'm supposed to use like every day, a couple times. And then there's was a different one that I thought it was only supposed to be used if the other one didn't work, but now the nurse just told me that I'm supposed to use them both, so I only got the one at the pharmacy. So I don't really. I don't really know. I feel like a bit confused now, but I always use the one supposed to be like two times a day, the one that starts with an F. But sometimes I just do it once a day if I forget the second one.
D: Okay, well, we can definitely clarify the confusion about the medications today. Sometimes for steroid medications, those ones are required to be used daily in order to get the maximal benefit. And so we'll take a look at your medications and see if one of those has a steroid component in it and a. And how often you're needing it. Have you been having any episodes of shortness of breath at nighttime?
P: No. No, mostly like gym class, like I said.
D: Okay. And have you had any other associated symptoms?
P: I don't think so. Like, what do you mean?
D: So anything like allergies, like runny nose or really itchy eyes with maybe some eye tearing?
P: When I was around the cats, yeah, but not the other time.
D: Okay. And do you ever have any rashes on your skin or really itchy skin?
P: When I was a kid, but not really now.
D: Okay, and how about any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any infectious symptoms? Overall.
P: I don't. I don't think so.
D: Okay. Any urinary problems?
P: Like. No. No.
D: Okay. Any bowel problems?
P: No, no, that's all good.
D: Okay. And any fevers or chills?
P: No.
D: Okay, and then how about. Have you been having any night sweats?
P: What's that?
D: So overnight when you're sleeping, you'd wake up with either your, like, pajamas drenched or your. Your sheets drenched. Drenched from sweating.
P: Oh, no.
D: Okay. Okay. So I just wanted to ask a few questions about your past health. Have you been. So you mentioned asthma. Have you been diagnosed with any other medical conditions?
P: No. No, that's it.
D: Okay. And any recent hospitalizations?
P: Like, I broke my leg years ago, but like, that was just like, really fast.
D: Okay. Any surgeries?
P: Just, like, my wisdom teeth.
D: Okay. And any medications besides like that, including the inhalers?
P: Nothing else? Just. Just those things. My mom makes me take a vitamin.
D: Okay. And any. Allergies.
P: Well, I. I don't know. Like, not that I thought, but maybe, like, cats.
D: Okay. And do you have any, like, seasonal allergies? Do you find, like, in the spring or fall time or even summer that you get, like, dry eyes or really itchy eyes or a runny nose?
P: Yeah, I always just thought, like, I had a cold, but I guess, like, I usually feel like that in the springtime.
D: Okay. And are your immunizations up to date?
P: I think so. Like, I've had all the stuff that I'm. That I'm supposed to. I think. I don't know the names of everything.
D: Okay. And so actually, I just wanted to ask a few questions about personal and kind of lifestyle habits. But first I was wondering if you could tell me a little bit about your living situation.
P: Yeah, like, I live with my mom and dad and, like, my little brother.
D: Okay.
P: Yeah.
D: Okay. And where do you go to school?
P: To the school. Dialect High school down the road.
D: Okay. And what grade? Now.
P: I'm in grade 11.
D: Okay. And what types of, like, hobbies or kind of activities are you interested in?
P: Like, I like playing video games. I was really wanting to join the Marines, and I was really trying to get into that stuff, but then I heard, like, you can't when you have asthma. So I kind of want to know about that. Like, is that going to stop me from doing that?
D: Yeah. So something that we'll look into today. I'm not too sure what the details are regarding that information, but thank you for bringing that up, and we'll be for sure to look into that together. And that reminded me of a question I wanted to ask earlier. And so have you had pulmonary function tests done before?
P: What is that?
D: So essentially, they'll have you kind of breathing into a tube where you'll have periods where you'll maximally inhale and then maximally exhale as quickly as you can, and you'll do different types of breathing movements so that it gets measured on a. On a device.
P: Oh, like, is that like, when you breathe in the tube?
D: Yeah, exactly.
P: Yeah. Like, the last time I was here, like, a couple months ago, I did that, and it said that. She said that my asthma was back.
D: Okay, thank you for clarifying. And so for the last few questions about personal habits, I was wondering, I understand that people in your age group might experience with smoking or alcohol. Do any of your friends do that?
P: I mean, sometimes we'll drink beer, like, at parties on the weekend. I don't drink a lot.
D: Okay. And can you tell me a little bit about your diet.
P: Sorry, I missed that.
D: I was just wondering if you could tell me a little bit about your diet.
P: Oh, well, my mom always, like, makes me a lunch. Like, I'll have, like, a sandwich for lunch with, like, you know, ham and cheese or something. We usually have, like, cereal for breakfast, and my mom makes dinner. It's usually, like, meat and, like, potatoes and vegetables or something. I think it's, like, pretty normal.
D: Okay. And are you currently sexually active?
P: Like, I have a girlfriend, like, just with her, like, just recently. Yeah, we started.
D: Okay. And do you use a condom?
P: Yeah.
D: Yeah, Every time or sometimes?
P: Oh, yeah, every time. It's not been that many times, but yeah.
D: Okay, great. And have you had any. Any other partners?
P: No. No. Like, I made out with other people before, but this is, like, the first one.
D: Okay. Have you had a sexually transmitted infection before?
P: No.
D: Okay. And I know this question might seem a little bit invasive, but it's important to ask everybody, have you had any thoughts of hurting or harming yourself?
P: No.
D: Okay.
P: I haven't.
D: Okay, great. And in your family, has anybody ever had any of these similar symptoms before?
P: Like, my dad, I think he maybe had asthma when he was younger, but, like, he doesn't really have it now.
D: Okay. And any allergies that run in the family?
P: Like, my. My dad also. My dad gets, like, a runny nose in the spring, so, yeah, I think that's allergies.
D: Okay. So overall, it's sounding like you've been having this shortness of breath or difficulty breathing episodes that you're saying that it's made worse when you're exercising out in the cold and then around pets and sometimes when the season changes as well, in the spring, and then with a recent diagnosis on pulmonary function tests a few months ago. So I think it would be important to clear up the medications today and try to get that better organized moving forward because it sounds like you're still pretty symptomatic with needing to use them daily currently, and so we'll look into that. And then also the question about the marine interest with asthma.
P: Yeah, thank you. Because I really want to know that that was my plan, and now I'm kind of worried. I can do that.
D: Excellent.
P: Okay, thank you.
