D: How are you?
P: Not so good. These last few days haven't been able to really keep anything down and not feeling so good.
D: Okay, I'm sorry to hear that. When you say last few days, do you mean the past two days, three days?
P: Well, I feel like maybe the last five days I just haven't been feeling so good and. And haven't really felt like eating. But these last two days I've been really nauseous and I've thrown up a few times.
D: Okay, when you say you haven't been feeling good for the past five days, is that like you feel achy, do you feel hot, like you have a fever, or do you feel weak?
P: Yeah, I do feel hot and yeah, maybe a bit tired.
D: Tired. Okay. And the nausea and vomiting. Are you throwing up or just feeling nauseous?
P: Mostly nauseous, but yeah, yesterday I threw up like three or four times, and then again today I threw up like two or three times.
D: Okay. Are you throwing up any blood?
P: No, I didn't see any red. It was mostly like yellow and liquidy because I just haven't been eating much solids or like, just like food? It's been mostly. I mean, mostly just having drinks.
D: Okay. And so mostly fluid, you said?
P: Yeah.
D: Okay, and what color is it?
P: Yeah, usually. Usually kind of like yellowish clear.
D: Okay. Okay. Are you having any abdominal pain?
P: Maybe after I vomit, it kind of feels squeezing a little bit, but I think. Yeah, I think that's just really with whether. When I'm like heaving.
D: Right. Are you. Do you have any changes in your bowel movements?
P: No, haven't noticed anything there.
D: Okay, and so no diarrhea, no constipation?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. No blood in your stool?
P: No blood. I haven't seen any red.
D: Okay, and how about issues swallowing food?
P: Yeah, no problem swallowing. Just haven't felt hungry.
D: Okay, so you don't have much of an appetite then?
P: No, not really.
D: Okay. All right. So any changes in taste?
P: Maybe? I mean, yeah, I think I might not be really tasting things the same.
D: Okay, how about smell?
P: Yeah, now that you say it, I might.
D: Yeah.
P: Yeah, I think my smell has been impacted as well. I can't really smell anything.
D: Okay.
P: I thought that was kind of weird, but didn't think anything of it actually, until you just asked me.
D: Yeah, for sure. How about any changes in your vision or hearing?
P: No changes to vision or hearing.
D: Okay. Any eye discharge, ear discharge?
P: Nothing like that. But I mean, my eyes were a bit. They've been a bit red these last two days.
D: Okay. They've been red. Any Pain?
P: Nope, no pain. And I've been able to see everything. Okay. It's just. I just noticed they were a little bit more red. I just thought maybe. I don't know, I was. I've just been tired.
D: Mm. Yeah, for sure. Any coughing?
P: Yeah, I haven't. I've had a cough, but I've had a cough for a few years now, so I. Yeah, I really didn't. That's not really a change for me.
D: Okay, so no change in your cough. Is it a dry cough or a wet cough?
P: It's a dry cough, usually dry cough.
D: Okay. Any blood that you produce?
P: No blood.
D: No blood. Okay. Any shortness of breath?
P: Not really. I'm able to exercise and stuff like that.
D: Okay. How about wheeziness?
P: No, I haven't had a wheeze.
D: Okay. How about any fatigue or tiredness?
P: Yeah, I definitely have felt a little bit more kind of groggy and tired this last week. Really?
D: Okay. And muscle aches to go along with that?
P: Yeah, a bit in my kind of upper arms and legs a little bit.
D: Okay. You said you've been feeling groggy. Do you feel dizzy at all?
P: Not dizzy, just maybe that I'm like moving in slow motion.
D: Okay. Yeah. Any confusion or memory loss?
P: No, I think I've been okay.
D: Okay. Any rashes?
P: No, I haven't noticed any rashes.
D: Okay. How about headaches?
P: Yeah, these last few days I've had a bit of a headache as well. It wasn't. Hasn't been very intense, so. Haven't worried about it too much.
D: Right. Okay. Hasn't been intense, you said. So have you had headaches like this in the past?
P: Yeah, I've had similar headaches before. I think they come like this, like if I didn't get a good sleep or. Or if I'm not drinking enough water or something, I'll kind of get a headache like this. Kind of feels like it's squeezing.
D: Yeah. You know? Yeah. That's understandable. But it's not like the worst headache you've ever had?
P: No, no. It's pretty similar to headaches that I've had before.
D: Okay. Okay, good. And are you otherwise healthy?
P: Yeah, well, I have high blood pressure and also high cholesterol, so I do take medications for both of those. So. Yeah, I take a statin and amlodipine, I think.
D: Okay. Okay, good. It's good that you're on both of those. Do you take any other medications, like over the counter medications or herbal supplements?
P: Yeah, I've been taking vitamin D and then also a Multivitamin. I heard that we don't get enough vitamin D throughout the winter.
D: Yeah, it's a great idea to take that, especially as we get older and if we live in a country where we don't get a lot of sun exposure, like Canada. So that's good. And, sorry, before I move on, I forgot to ask you earlier if you have experienced any weight loss or night sweats recently?
P: No, my weight's been about the same, unfortunately, and I haven't had any night sweats. But, I mean, now that you ask, I felt more hot than usual.
D: Okay. And did you take your temperature?
P: I did, and the last time I checked, it was a few days ago. And at that time, I didn't have a fever. But, I mean, I'm still feeling hot, so I'm not sure.
D: Yeah. Okay. All right, so I'll go back to your past medical history. Have you been hospitalized or have you ever needed surgeries in the past?
P: No, the last time I was in the hospital was for a colonoscopy a few years ago, which came back normal.
D: Okay, that's good. Are you up to date with all your immunizations?
P: Yeah, I actually got the shingles vaccine a few months ago. Probably closer to a year ago now, actually.
D: Oh, great. Okay. That's awesome. And are you allergic to anything?
P: Just peanuts.
D: Peanuts. Okay. Do you know if you have a family history of any lung or heart conditions?
P: Yeah, my son has asthma, but nobody in my family's had a heart problem, though.
D: Okay, how about any stomach problems or liver problems? Colon problems?
P: Yeah, my dad actually had colon cancer when he was 70, and so that's why we went with. Decided to get a colonoscopy instead of just doing the immunohistochemistry test.
D: Okay. Yeah, that's a good idea. So it sounds like you're, you know, preemptive with your health, which is good. Any other cancers that run in the family?
P: No, just my dad had colon cancer.
D: Okay. And do you smoke at all?
P: No, I don't.
D: No. Okay. How about marijuana?
P: No, I don't smoke marijuana.
D: Okay. How about other recreational drugs?
P: I mean, I might have, like, dabbled in the past at parties and stuff like that, but that was when I was way younger, in my college years.
D: Okay, what kind of drugs?
P: Well, I think maybe. I don't know. We used cocaine a few times and MDMA, but that was, like, last time, probably like, 30 years ago.
D: Okay. Were any of these drugs injected? IV?
P: No. No, I've never done that.
D: Okay. Okay, that's good. Do you drink alcohol?
P: Yeah, I'll have, like, maybe, I don't know, a couple drinks a week.
D: Okay, that's good. What kind of drinks do you have, and how much of it do you have?
P: Usually it'll just be one or two glasses of wine at a time and maybe two nights a week.
D: Okay.
P: Usually stick with red wine.
D: Okay, great. And who do you live with?
P: So it's just me and my son.
D: How old is your son?
P: He's 18.
D: 18. Okay. And do you live in a house? In an apartment?
P: Yeah, we live in an apartment. In an apartment? Yeah. On the eighth floor.
D: On the eighth floor. Okay. Any issues in terms of, like, old carpets or mold or asbestos in the apartment?
P: It's a newish building, so there isn't really any carpet actually in the unit. So, yeah, it's pretty clean that way.
D: Okay, good. That's good. So those were all the questions that I had for you. Did you have any questions or concerns that you wanted to bring up before we ended the interview?
P: Well, I'm just hoping to get this sorted out and feel better.
D: Yeah, for sure. So, you know, right now we're thinking it could be a viral gi. Viral infection because of your complaints of, you know, nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, and fever. But it could also be Covid. And we are gonna have to do a swab for you and run that test because you have a lot of symptoms that overlap with those symptoms. And then, so just going off of that, we'll wait for the swabs to come back. If they come back positive, we'll notify Public Health, and they'll do a trace to see where you could have gotten this infection from. And then meanwhile, we do suggest that you isolate for two weeks so that you don't spread the illness. And even if the swab comes back negative, there's still a chance that you may have Covid and it's a false negative test, so we'll start there. If it turns out you don't have any of those viral illnesses and you have more of a bacterial picture, we can work you up for that and prescribe antibiotics. So that's where we will start. How does that sound?
P: Yeah, that sounds like a great start. Thank you.
D: All right, great.
