D: What brought you in today?
P: Yeah, I'm just feeling. So. I do have copd, but I just feel so much worse. I do have shortness of breath, but I think it's just been worse over the past three days. I'm having more difficulty climbing stairs or even just going to the bathroom.
D: Okay, and you said this started three days ago?
P: Three or four days ago.
D: And since that time, has the shortness of breath been getting worse or staying the same?
P: Yeah, so initially it was just climbing stairs, you know, but then after that, I mean, this morning I was just short of breath going to the bathroom.
D: Okay. And have you had shortness of breath on exertion like this before?
P: You know, sometimes.
D: Okay.
P: I don't. I don't do much anyway because my copd, you know, things have been a little bit difficult. Yeah, I use my buffers.
D: Okay. And have you had any episodes where you've woken up in the middle of the night and were really short of breath? You had to sit up? Sit up?
P: No, no, no.
D: Okay. And are you able to lie flat?
P: Yes.
D: Okay. And you mentioned you were bringing up sputum. Could you describe the color?
P: Yeah, I don't know. It's kind of yellow. Green.
D: Is that changed from.
P: Yeah, yeah. So usually it's just sort of whitish and foamy and. Yeah, it's different. And it's more. You know, it's a lot more. Every time I'm coughing, it's just like. Like a spoonful. It's a lot more than usual.
D: Okay. Yeah, it sounds like a lot more. And have you noticed any blood?
P: No, no, no.
D: Okay. And have you. So have you had a cough then?
P: Oh, yeah. Yeah, I've had a cough for the past 20 years.
D: Okay, and is your cough worse at any particular time of the day or does it happen throughout the day?
P: Well, it's a bit worse when I'm smoking, but otherwise it's the same.
D: Okay. Has your cough been worse these past couple of days as well?
P: No.
D: Okay, and have you had any headaches?
P: No.
D: How about any ear pain or eye pain? No. Any sore throat?
P: No.
D: Okay. Have you had a loss of smell or a loss of taste?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: Okay. And have you had any wheezing?
P: A little bit. It's been there for a while, though.
D: Okay, have you noticed any changes to the wheeze?
P: No, I don't think so. I don't know. I can't tell.
D: I see. Okay. And have you had any chest pain?
P: No.
D: Have you had any lightheadedness or dizziness no. Okay. Have you had any heart palpitations?
P: No.
D: All right, and have you had any abdominal pain, nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: All right, and any urinary problems?
P: No.
D: Any bowel problems?
P: No.
D: Okay. And have you had any changes to your skin or any rashes?
P: No, not really.
D: Okay. And have you had any fevers or chills?
P: I think I was feeling very chilly last night. My wife had to bring an extra blanket for me.
D: Okay. Have you had any night sweats?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: Okay. And have you checked your temperature?
P: No, I didn't.
D: Okay, well, we'll certainly check that today. And have you had any weight loss in the last several months?
P: I don't check my weight very often, but yeah, my quotes still fit. They're all fine.
D: Okay, fair enough. And have you noticed any leg swelling or any swelling in your belly?
P: No.
D: Okay. And in regards to your past health, you mentioned copd, but have you been diagnosed with any other medical conditions?
P: Yeah, I have high blood pressure and my cholesterol is also a little bit on the high side.
D: I see. Okay. And you use puffers. Did you use any other medications?
P: Yeah, I think my doc prescribed some pills. I don't know. I don't remember what they are. I just ate them every day.
D: Okay, we can get that information. Have you had any hospitalizations?
P: I've been. I've been to the ER a couple times and this one time it was similar to this time when I was having difficulties breathing and I had to stay for about five days or so. I think that was two years ago.
D: Okay, and how are your symptoms feeling now? And compared to that time.
P: I wasn't producing this green, yellow thing that's coming out of my mouth right now. It was not that bad. It's just last time I was having difficulties breathing so I decided to come in. But this time I just have this weird thing. I don't even feel like looking at it.
D: Okay. Yeah, for sure. It sounds like something certainly going on. And have you had any past surgeries?
P: I had a knee replacement.
D: Okay. And can you tell me a little bit about your living situation, like who do you live with and whereabouts?
P: Yeah, I live with my wife about 10 minutes away from here. We live in an apartment. Yeah.
D: Okay. And are you working? Are you retired?
P: I retired two years ago. I used to work at Chrysler's as a mechanic.
D: Okay, and have you been around anybody who might be sick?
P: No. No.
D: Alright. Or how about have you traveled anywhere?
P: No, I've just been staying indoors. My wife's been staying with me. We're both pretty careful. We're worried about catching COVID so we don't even go out for groceries. We just have those delivery guys come in and bring us groceries.
D: Okay. And you smoke cigarettes, you mentioned. How much do you smoke per day?
P: I smoke about a pack a day.
D: Okay. And how long have you smoked for?
P: Let's see. About 45 years.
D: Okay. Have you thought about quitting?
P: Yeah. Yeah. Multiple doctors have told me to quit, and it's just. I don't think I can quit. It's not gonna happen. I can't live without my cigarettes.
D: Okay. The door is always open. And certainly something we can talk about at any time if you'd like to. But in the meantime, we'll leave it alone for now. I was wondering if you drink alcohol.
P: And drinking a glass or two every weekend.
D: Okay. And do you use any other recreational drugs like marijuana, cocaine?
P: No.
D: Okay. And any family history of heart or lung conditions.
P: High blood pressure?
D: Okay. Has anybody in the family had lung cancer?
P: No.
D: All right. And so you've been experiencing worsening sputum production that now has a green color to it. And now having a bit more short of breath, which sounds like a COPD exacerbation, especially since it's a similar type of presentation as before. And so since. So we'll order a chest X ray, some blood gases, and do a sputum culture and possibly start antibiotics, but depending on the severity, we may not need to just yet. And then we'll also use some inhalers as well as inhaled steroids to help with the inflammation in the airways.
P: Sure.
D: All right, we'll get that started.
P: Thank you.
