D: What brings you in?
P: Yeah, so I've been feeling just really down recently in the last week. I started off by having this sore throat, which started around five days ago. And then I also noticed I've been getting some chills over the last few days. And on top of all of that, within the last three to four days, I've been getting muscle aches all over my body.
D: Okay. All right. So the sore throat started five days ago, and then the fever started when.
P: So the fever, I think I haven't measured it, but I started having chills like three days ago.
D: Three days ago. Okay. And the muscle ache started two days ago.
P: I would say three days ago as well.
D: Three days ago. Okay. Okay. Are you having any trouble swallowing foods or fluids?
P: A little bit with solids with the sore throat. But liquids? I'm doing okay right now.
D: Okay. And is it hard for you to like. Are you having issues vocalizing at all?
P: No, I think my voice is still the same. It's just with. Just. Even when I'm not talking, especially even if I'm swallowing my own spit, it still hurts sometimes, but mainly with solid food.
D: Okay. Okay. And are you having any issues with taste or smell?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: Okay. How about hearing or vision?
P: No, no changes.
D: Any weight loss over the past few weeks?
P: No, I probably have gained weight.
D: Okay. Any fatigue or exhaustion?
P: Now that you mentioned, I do feel pretty, pretty tired over the last few days. I don't know if it's just because of my muscles aching all the time or. I don't know. I have definitely felt very tired.
D: Okay. How about changes in your hair, nails or skin? Like rashes?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Do you have a cough at all?
P: No, I haven't really noticed the coughs.
D: How about shortness of breath or wheeziness?
P: No, no shortness of breath or wheezing.
D: Okay. Chest pain?
P: Nope.
D: Heart? You feeling like your heart's racing?
P: No.
D: No. How about dizziness or fainting spells?
P: No, I haven't had any of those.
D: Okay. How about changes to your bowel movements?
P: No, I don't think so. I go regularly once a day, and I haven't noticed any watery stool or diarrhea.
D: Okay, that's good. Any changes in your appetite?
P: Yeah, with the sore throat, I tend to, like, eat softer foods. Right now I can't really. I don't really feel like eating.
D: Yeah. Okay. How about nausea or vomiting?
P: No, no, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Okay. Any issues with joint pain? You said your muscle aches, but how about joints?
P: No, I don't think it's specifically my joints. I think more so I would say, like, around, in, and around my thighs. Then I would say just my upper arms hurt a lot, and even my upper back area hurts a lot as well. So it's kind of just everywhere. But those are some areas that hurt the most.
D: Okay. Okay. Are you otherwise healthy?
P: Yeah, I do have a couple things on my list. I do have high blood pressure. I have diabetes.
D: And.
P: Other than that, I also have, like, high cholesterol. Yeah, those are just some of the things that I've been diagnosed with.
D: Yeah. Okay. And do you take medication for any of these things?
P: Yeah, so I take. For the blood pressure, I take this medication called Ramapro.
D: Okay. Yep.
P: And then for diabetes, I'm taking metformin.
D: Mm.
P: And then for the cholesterol, I'm taking this medication called Crestor.
D: Yeah.
P: Yeah. But other than just, like, vitamin D, multivitamins, I. Those are some of the medications that I'm taking.
D: Sure. Yeah. Are you up to date with all your immunizations?
P: Yep.
D: Okay. Do you know they got a vaccine called Shingrex for shingles and Pneumovax for pneumococcal infections?
P: Yeah, I actually think I got them just this season. With all this Covid going on, I just wanted to make sure I get those vaccines as well, so. Yeah, I recently just caught them.
D: Okay, good. And how about any allergies?
P: No, I don't have any allergies.
D: Okay. How about family history of lung conditions or heart conditions?
P: Lung conditions. No heart conditions. Both my mom and dad suffered from, like, high blood pressure. My dad also had a heart attack when in his 60s. Are there some heart conditions that run in the family?
D: Okay. Okay. And then how about cancers in the family?
P: My son actually got diagnosed with colorectal cancer just a few years ago.
D: Oh, I'm sorry to hear that.
P: He's doing okay, though. It was pretty scary at the time.
D: How old was he when he was diagnosed?
P: I think he was. Yeah, he was 40, 46.
D: Okay. Wow. Yeah. That's young. Have you had a colonoscopy?
P: Yeah, I had a colonoscopy done. Everything came back normal, so, yeah, I'm not sure where he got it from.
D: Okay. Have you had any sick contacts recently?
P: No sick contacts that I know of. I've been mainly in my house. I do go outside for groceries and some things like that, but other than that, I'm retired. I don't really go out too much.
D: Yeah. Okay. And you said you're retired. Do you live alone? Do you Live with anyone?
P: No. Yeah, I live alone and I live in London in an apartment.
D: Okay. Any old carpets, mold, dust, asbestos?
P: No, it's nothing, nothing like that. It's a pretty safe building.
D: Okay, good. And do you smoke?
P: I used to. I used to smoke probably in my 20s to late 40s, but then I quit.
D: Okay, good. Good for you. How much did you smoke before you quit?
P: Probably one to two packs a day, I would say.
D: Okay, that's good. That's good that you quit. Do you drink any alcohol?
P: I just stick to some red wine, maybe a couple times a week.
D: Okay, a couple times a week. So what, two to three times?
P: Yeah, I would say two to three times. And I probably go through maybe one bottle every two weeks.
D: Okay. Okay. And any marijuana?
P: No, no, I've never had any marijuana. Or any recreational drugs? No, nothing else.
D: Okay, good. Well, those were all the questions that I had for you today. Did you have any questions of your own for me?
P: Yeah, with all this Covid and the pandemic going on, I don't know if I like, I've been mainly at my house, but like I said, I do go to do my own groceries. Of course I wear a mask, but I don't. Might have caught Covid. So that's something I was worried about.
D: Yeah, for sure. I think just because your symptoms do overlap with those of COVID we will be doing a Covid swab today and you should hear back about your results in 24 to 48 hours. But you should still self isolate for 14 days because you do have similar symptoms. And if it's not Covid, it's probably another viral illness that's going around these days. And for that you don't. We can't treat you with any medication like prescribed medications, but just keep an eye on that, on your symptoms, stay hydrated, eat well. If you need to lower your fevers, you can use Tylenol. And if your symptoms worsen or you start getting neurological symptoms like weakness or seizures or anything like that, you should seek help from the er. How does that sound?
P: That sounds good. I just had another quick question. I did get the shingles and the pneumo vaccine, but I didn't get the flu vaccine. Like, should I get it? Oh, is it recommended?
D: Yeah. Yes, it's definitely recommended. So we won't give you the vaccine right now because you have symptoms, but once you are healthy again, you should definitely get the flu vaccine and you should get it once a year.
P: Okay. I just never, never took those vaccines. But I'll do that from now on.
D: Yeah, it's a good idea. And even if you get. Even if you get the flu, your symptoms won't be as severe if you have the vaccine, so it's definitely something to consider.
P: Okay. All right. Sounds good.
D: All right. Take care.
P: You too.
