D: Going to be having a chat with you today, get an idea of how things are going, and then I'll go over it with the physician that I'm working with, and we can come back together and talk to you about the next steps. Does that sound good to you? I hear that you've been having. Experiencing a cough. Can you tell me a little bit about that?
P: Yeah, I've had this cough for the past two weeks, and it just doesn't go.
D: Have you ever had anything like this before?
P: I usually get a cold once a year or so, but the cough doesn't last this long. Like, it's usually over in a week or a week and a half or so.
D: And it's just not letting up. Okay. Okay. I'm going to ask you a few questions about the cough itself. Is this a dry cough that you're experiencing, or are you producing, like, any mucus or coughing up anything?
P: There was some mucus earlier on, but now it's a dry cough.
D: Now it's dry. Okay. How long? What was the timeline for that?
P: I guess.
D: How long?
P: Yeah. So maybe for the first four or five days, there was this, like, whitish, clear kind of mucus that was coming up, and then after that was a dry cough.
D: Okay. Okay. And do you feel like the intensity of the cough got worse over the last two weeks, or has it gotten any better?
P: Kind of the same, I would say.
D: And has the cough gotten more frequent over this time as well?
P: No.
D: How often would you say that you're coughing?
P: It's hard for me to quantify. Maybe a couple times an hour, Maybe three or four times an hour or so.
D: Okay. Is there anything you can think of that triggers the cough or is it spontaneous?
P: It's kind of spontaneous. Can't really think of anything.
D: Okay. And along with the cough, are you experiencing any difficulty breathing?
P: No.
D: Okay. Have you noticed any fevers? No. Okay. Have you had any sore throat?
P: I did initially for the first two or three days, and then that got better.
D: Okay. Have you had any runny nose?
P: I did initially. I had, like, had all those flu symptoms for the first couple of days, but the cough just kind of stayed. Everything else resolved in the first three or four days, I would say.
D: Okay, thank you for sharing that. Have you had. Did you have any chest pain at any point?
P: No, but I guess, like, sometimes when I'm coughing too much, my chest hurts a little bit.
D: Oh, okay. So it feels kind of sore after all of that?
P: Yeah.
D: Okay. Okay. Have you been in contact? I guess it's hard to say because it started a while ago. But before it started, were you in contact with anyone that's been sick?
P: I work at the hospital, but I'm wearing PPE all the time and I'm very careful, so.
D: Okay. Have you traveled anywhere outside of the province?
P: No.
D: Okay. Okay. Have you had any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Any belly pain?
P: No.
D: Okay. So I'm just going to ask you some questions about your overall health. Have you had any respiratory problems in the past?
P: No.
D: Okay. Do you have any chronic conditions that you see your family doctor for regularly?
P: I've got acid reflux and I also have anxiety.
D: Are you currently taking any medication?
P: I used to. Not anymore.
D: Was there any particular medication that you stopped recently?
P: No, no. I used to take something for anxiety two, three years ago.
D: Okay. And what do you do for your reflux?
P: I just avoid. Right now I'm just trying to avoid the foods that make things worse for me, and I feel like that's helped me quite a bit. So. Yeah, I've. Wait, like, acidic foods and chocolates and things like that.
D: That's no fun. Do you have any allergies?
P: Just hay fever.
D: And do you have any family history of respiratory problems or heart problems? No. Okay. And just in terms of your lifestyle, do you live with family, live alone?
P: I live with my partner.
D: Okay. And do you have any kids or pets living with you?
P: No.
D: Do you smoke?
P: I don't know.
D: Drink alcohol?
P: Occasionally on Christmas.
D: Oh, okay. I see. And do you use any other substances? No. Okay. And what do you do for work?
P: I'm a clerk at the hospital.
D: Oh, okay. Right. You did say you work in the school. Okay. And I can't think. I thought I had another question for you, but I can't remember it right now. Anything else that you wanted to tell me about that I didn't ask you? You. No.
P: I guess I was just wondering why I still have a cough. It's been such a long time. Yeah. And I was wondering if I could get any medications just to help with it. It's not really. Yeah, it's. Everyone's, like, scared at work when I cough. I have. I have had the COVID test done. I don't have it, so. Yeah.
D: When was that last test done?
P: I had the test done when I first started having symptoms about two weeks ago. Since then, I've been at home and I'm just waiting for my symptoms to get better. But I. You know, I kind of want to get back and I don't want to be coughing when I get back.
D: Yeah, well, I'm going to have a quick listen to your heart and lungs. I'll do a quick physical exam, and then I will go get the doctor that I'm working with. I'll kind of go over everything, and then we'll come back and talk to you about where to go from here.
P: Sounds great.
D: Okay. Well, thanks for chatting with me.
