D: What can I do for you today?
P: I've just had this cough that has gotten a lot worse and really short of breath.
D: Can you tell me more about your shortness of breath?
P: Yeah, just over the past 12 hours or so, I've just been finding it more and more difficult to. To breathe.
D: When are you able? I guess when do you feel short of breath?
P: Yeah, it's just like, right now at rest. I can, like, I'm okay, but it still is feeling increasingly difficult. So, like, throughout the day, it's just been getting. Getting worse, and the cough has been getting worse also.
D: And before these 12 hours, did you have any difficulties with breathing?
P: No, I had a cough, but.
D: Not.
P: Really any shortness of breath.
D: And can you tell me about your cough? Is it a dry cough or a wet cough?
P: Yeah, I've been bringing up some sputum.
D: Okay. What does it look like?
P: It's, like, greenish and yellow.
D: Okay. And you said that you had a cough prior to the past 12 hours and that your cough is now worse. How is it worse?
P: It's been just happening more often and just, like, throughout the day. Usually my cough is only in the morning. I'll bring up some sputum and I'm okay. But it's carried on throughout the day.
D: Okay, and was your sputum greenish yellow before as well, or was it just starting yesterday or a couple days ago?
P: Yeah, that's just starting new. It was more like whitish or. Yeah, white, I guess, before.
D: Okay. All right. And I guess, has this ever happened to you before?
P: No, this is the first time that this has happened before.
D: Okay. And do you have any other, I guess, symptoms? So I'll ask you about a couple. Do you have any. Do you feel confused or fuzzy?
P: No. That feels okay.
D: Any headaches?
P: No.
D: Any stuffy, stuffy nose or runny nose?
P: No.
D: Sore throat?
P: No.
D: Any chest pain?
P: Yeah, I do have some. Well, I guess it's not really pain. It's more like just chest tightness. I'm really having a hard time with. With breathing.
D: I see. Okay. Do you feel like your heart's beating very fast?
P: No.
D: Okay. Do you have any belly pain or any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Any changes in your bowel movements or any urinary symptoms?
P: No.
D: Any muscle aches?
P: No.
D: Fevers or chills?
P: No.
D: Okay. All right. And in terms of your past medical history, any medical problems that you've been diagnosed with?
P: Yeah, I was diagnosed with COPD two years ago. Yeah, this is at. I went to my family doctor for this, and I had some testing done, and I was diagnosed at that time.
D: Okay. Any other diagnoses?
P: Yeah, I have high blood pressure, aortic stenosis and. And high cholesterol.
D: Are you taking any medications?
P: Yeah, I take a statin medication, I think some type of blood thinner as well as something for the blood pressure as well. I can't remember the. The names of them.
D: Why are you on a blood thinner?
P: Oh, I heard that it was. It was good for me, for a friend since I've had aortic stenosis.
D: Okay, sure. Alright. And have you had any surgeries?
P: No, I haven't.
D: Okay. And any hospitalizations?
P: No, I haven't.
D: Okay. Do you have any allergies to food, environmental allergies, or any allergies to medications?
P: No.
D: Okay. Do you have. Or what's your current living situation? Are you living in an apartment or house? Do you live alone? Do you live with other people?
P: Yeah, I live alone in a house here in town.
D: Okay. And are you currently working? Are you retired?
P: Yeah, I do.
D: Currently.
P: Well, I just do some volunteering at the golf course in the summer, but otherwise retired.
D: What did you do for work?
P: So before I worked at the beer factory in town, Labatte.
D: Okay. And have you ever had any exposures to any chemicals or any. Anything that you. Any irritants that you think, any smoke that might affect your lungs or your.
P: Yeah, I don't think so. I mean, working in a factory environment. So I'm sure things years ago weren't as clean as they are now, but. Yeah, I'm not sure.
D: Okay. All right. And are you. You said you live alone. Are you able to take care of things like getting groceries or cooking or cleaning the house, or do you need help with that?
P: I do get some help from my son who lives nearby, and I'm able to get them to help make some meals and bring some food over and then I'll go visit them as well. I can take care of the house and all of that. Not okay on my own, but it certainly gets lonely there, I'm sure.
D: What about things like walking? Do you use a cane or a walker?
P: No, I don't.
D: Okay. And are you able to bathe on your own, Dress on your own? Do you need help?
P: Oh, yeah, those things are okay.
D: Okay. Have you ever. Have you been on oxygen at all?
P: No, I haven't, but I feel like I could be right now. It's like really short of breath.
D: Yeah. Yeah, we can definitely do that here. All right, so given your symptoms, it sounds like maybe you're having a copd. Exacerbation potentially. Do you feel like you might have had contact with anyone who was sick?
P: Not that I can think of.
D: Okay. Have you traveled at all outside the country or outside the province?
P: No, I've just been helping out at the golf course, but that's all kind of outside.
D: Are you wearing a mask and maintaining social distancing?
P: Yeah, we are helping out with. Cleaning the carts and kind of helping out with the grounds.
D: Okay. All right, so we'll do a Covid swab here just in case. And seeing that you're not feeling very well, you might require oxygen. We're going to keep you here in the er and you might have to. You might have to be hospitalized. We'll measure your vitals, do a physical exam, do a chest X ray. And you might be having, as I mentioned earlier, an exacerbation of your COPD or a worsening of your COPD potentially because you might have an infection, either a viral infection or a bacterial infection that can sometimes worsen your COPD symptoms. You might be started on an antibiotic. You'll be putting you on oxygen and giving you some steroids. Some. Are you. Actually, yeah, about that. Are you. Are you using any buffers at home?
P: Yeah, so, yeah, I have been using. Sorry, I have been using Bentalin, and there was a daily inhaler, Spuriva, I believe I've been using that each day.
D: Okay, great. Great. Yeah, so we'll be. We'll be giving you some buffers here as well, and, yeah, we'll see how things go. Do you have any questions?
P: No, that. That sounds good. Thank you.
D: Okay, great.
