D: What brings you in today?
P: So I've been having just worsening breathlessness. I've been also having a cough, and I think I might have also had a fever in the last couple weeks.
D: Okay, so the breathlessness started six weeks ago, correct?
P: Yeah.
D: Okay. And then when did cough start?
P: I'd say around the same time the breathlessness started, so around six weeks.
D: Okay. And then the fever.
P: The fever I've kind of had on and off in the last couple weeks. I would say two to three weeks.
D: Okay. Okay. And do you. How often are you having this breathlessness?
P: I would say it's pretty much there most of the time. It sometimes gets worse when I'm exerting myself, but I think just baseline, I feel like I've been able to breathe less heavily than before.
D: Okay, so. All right. And how long does it last when you do get it, or is it just always there?
P: It's kind of just there, but then when it's getting worse, like, it lasts a couple minutes to. I would say, like, 10 to 15 minutes, and then it goes back to, like, just the normal breathlessness.
D: Okay, and if you were to describe the quality of your breathlessness, would you say that it feels like a kind of like a burning feeling, like you're having a hard time catching your breath, or does it feel like you're breathing too fast?
P: I think it's more. I just can't seem to take, like, deep breaths, and then when I get breathless, I really try to take a deep breath, but I just can't find myself catching my breath at that time. Okay, so it's just more not being able to catch my breath.
D: Okay, sure. And are there things that make. Make it better or worse?
P: Not really. I think sometimes moving around too much, but, like, nothing really causes it.
D: Okay, and was there any sort of trigger six weeks ago that you think may have, like, caused all of your symptoms?
P: I'm not sure. I don't think there was any triggers.
D: Okay, has anyone around you been sick?
P: So there. There are some people living in my house that have a bad cough over the last few weeks.
D: Okay, so, yeah. So they have similar symptoms to you as well, then?
P: Yeah, some of them, like, don't really have the shortness of breath. It's just like a cough.
D: Okay.
P: But yeah, there are some of them also have some shortness of breath.
D: Okay. Okay. And have you traveled anywhere recently?
P: So I actually came to Canada one year ago. I'm originally from India, and I came here to study.
D: Okay. Okay. All right. If you were to rate your breathlessness from 1 to 10, 10 being the worst. How bad is your breathlessness?
P: It can get pretty bad. Like I would say up to an 8, sometimes maybe a couple times a week.
D: Okay. And have you ever experienced this before?
P: No, this is like the first time I'm having this issue.
D: Okay. And do you feel like it's getting worse, better? Has it changed since you started having these symptoms?
P: I think it's getting worse and that's why I was getting a bit scared and I came here.
D: Okay. Yeah, that was a good call. Have you had any changes to your smell recently?
P: No. No changes to smell.
D: Any. Anything like a runny nose or a stuffy nose?
P: No, not really. No?
D: No. Okay. How about a sore throat?
P: Nope. No sore throat.
D: No sore throat. Any changes to your taste?
P: Nope.
D: Any changes in hearing?
P: Nope.
D: Ear pain or discharge from your ears?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Any eye pain?
P: Nope.
D: Changes in your vision?
P: Nope.
D: Any discharge from your eyes?
P: Nope.
D: Okay. And you mentioned a fever and some night sweats. How often are you getting these night sweats and do they feel like chills?
P: I think in the last two weeks I've been getting it more frequently. Like I would say every other night I. I feel. I would feel chilly at one point and then I would break out into night sweats where I have to take off my blanket. I think I measured it once or twice over the weekend. It did show like a fever of 102.
D: Okay. Okay. Okay. And any changes to your skin, like rashes?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Any weight loss?
P: I would say I think I'm losing a little bit of weight over the last couple weeks. I haven't really weighed myself, but I feel that I have lost some weight.
D: Okay. Yeah. And the coughing, Are you coughing up any blood?
P: I don't think so. Sometimes, like when I cough up like sputum, there is like a little bit of pink tinged sputum as well. Sometimes it's like brownish in color and sometimes it's green, but I haven't actually coughed up any blood.
D: Okay. And you said there's some sputum, like pink tinged sputum. How much sputum would you say you cough up every time you cough?
P: Maybe like, like a spoonful. I would say spoonful.
D: Okay. And. And do you ever feel like you're wheezing?
P: No, I don't think so. I don't really notice any noises when I'm breathing.
D: Okay. All right. So any chest pain?
P: No, no chest pain at all.
D: Okay. How about swelling in your legs or in your limbs?
P: No, no leg Swelling?
D: No leg swelling. Okay. How about you? Feeling like your heart's racing?
P: Nope.
D: No. Okay. Okay. And any nausea or vomiting?
P: No, no nausea or vomiting.
D: How about changes in your bowel movements?
P: No.
D: Okay. How about changes in urinating?
P: No, it's been fine.
D: All right. Any headaches?
P: No headaches.
D: Any dizziness or fainting spells?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. No confusion or memory loss?
P: Nope.
D: Okay. And are you otherwise healthy? Do you have any medical conditions?
P: I think when I was back in India a couple years ago, they did give me some antibiotics for, like, a chest infection, but I couldn't really afford the medications. Didn't take them. I didn't finish the course, but other than that, nothing else.
D: Okay. Did they mention what type of chest infection it could have been?
P: No, I don't really remember. I think it was some kind of pneumonia.
D: Okay. Okay. Are you on any medications? Just.
P: I take Tylenol sometimes, but it hasn't really been helping.
D: Okay. Are you allergic to anything?
P: No, not that I know.
D: Okay. Are you up to date with all your immunizations?
P: Yep, as far as I know.
D: Okay. And is there any family history of lung conditions or heart conditions?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. How about cancers?
P: No. Cancers that run in the family? No.
D: Okay. Okay. So you mentioned you moved to Canada from India about a year back. Where do you live now?
P: So I live in. It's. We have, like, a student house with some of the students who came from India as well, and there's six of us living together in a house.
D: Okay. Okay. And are they sick as well, or. No.
P: Yeah. So three of them actually have, like. Two of them have a cough, and one of them has shortness of breath as well.
D: Okay. And have they been to a doctor? Have they been investigated? Were they ever given a diagnosis?
P: No, not that I know of. I think I'm. I might be the first one who actually went to a doctor.
D: Okay. Okay. Do you smoke?
P: I smoke, like, I would say, like, five cigarettes a day.
D: Okay. How long have you been smoking?
P: For around 10 years.
D: Okay, that's a. It's been a while then. And do you. Do you drink alcohol?
P: No, I don't drink and I don't do any drugs either.
D: Okay. Okay. Are you sexually active?
P: Not currently. No.
D: No. Okay. Have you ever had unprotected sex?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. Okay. Did you have any questions or concerns, anything you wanted to discuss that I hadn't asked you about?
P: So. Yeah, this is just like, my first time visiting a doctor in this country, and I was just very scared that it might be something serious, so. Just wanted to know what it can be.
D: Yeah, for sure. So the first thing we want to rule out is tb, because you have recently moved to Canada from a country where it is, I believe, it is endemic. So and some of your most of your symptoms fit with TB and how it presents. So we just want to make sure it's not that because it is highly infectious and we don't want it to spread. So we can do like an AFB smear or I think they have other diagnostic workup for that, too. So we'll do that first. If not, we can check to see if it's like another typical pneumonia. We can do a chest X ray for that as well. And if both of those turn out to be negatives, then we'll have to work you up further for other things like COPD or lung cancer. How does that sound?
P: That sounds good. Thank you.
