D: What brings you in here today?
P: I've had a new cough that started.
D: This week.
P: It's been going on the last like three or four days and I've had a headache and. But yesterday I just noticed that I haven't been able to smell, so I wanted to come in this morning.
D: Okay. Yeah. So it's been going on for the last four days. Is it kind of like a dry cough or a wet cough?
P: It's dry.
D: It's dry. Okay. Are you at all bringing up any kind of sputum or blood at all?
P: No, I haven't been.
D: Okay, and have you been experiencing any kind of fevers or chills?
P: Yeah, I feel. I have felt feverish and I think that. Yeah, that's kind of started like within the last day.
D: Okay, and did you get a temperature at all?
P: No, I've just been really feeling. Yeah, feverish and feeling really hot.
D: Okay, and besides the A cough, are you having any other symptoms like muscle aches or headaches?
P: Yeah, I've been having a head like headache on and off over this past three or four days as well. And I have had muscle aches. My whole body kind of aches.
D: Okay, and when did this start?
P: That's been over the past like three days or so. Yeah, I woke up, but I've just been feeling achy and just not feeling good.
D: Okay. Yeah. So it all just kind of started in the last four days. Are you having any kind of fainting or dizziness episodes at all?
P: No, I haven't had anything like that.
D: Okay, any. Are your symptoms getting worse at all?
P: No, they. Well, initially they did, but they've kind of stayed the same.
D: Okay, and have you had any loss of sense of taste or smell?
P: Yeah, I've had a loss of smell and taste, now that you mention it. Yeah.
D: And when did that happen?
P: Within the last two days.
D: Okay, and are you having any runny nose, congestion, sore throat, any of those symptoms?
P: No, not really. Nothing like that.
D: Okay. Have you traveled at all recently?
P: No, I haven't traveled. I haven't traveled anywhere, but I've just been going to work and being at home.
D: Okay, and where do you go for work?
P: I'm a nurse actually, at a walk in clinic.
D: Okay, and have you at all been exposed to anyone who's been sick, anyone who has tested positive for Covid?
P: Nobody that I'm aware of that's tested positive. But there has been people recently that like within the past week that we've seen come in with cough and things like that.
D: Okay. Are you having any nausea Vomiting?
P: No, I haven't had anything like that.
D: Okay. Any night sweats?
P: No.
D: Any chest pain or shortness of breath?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any changes in your bowel movement? Any diarrhea or constipation?
P: No.
D: Any changes in your urination?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: No burning sensation or pain at all?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Any changes in your sleep or appetite recently?
P: Yeah, well, just these past couple of days, I haven't really felt like eating much. My sleep's been okay, but I think that's just because I haven't been feeling well, so just haven't really wanted to eat.
D: Okay. Any weight changes recently?
P: No, I wish.
D: And have you been diagnosed with any medical conditions in the past at all?
P: No, I've been healthy.
D: Do you take any medications on a regular basis?
P: Just a multivitamin and then, like a greens supplement.
D: A green, green supplement?
P: Yeah, it's just sort of like a greens powder. It's supposed to replace, I don't know, one of your servings of vegetables for the day.
D: Okay. And have you been hospitalized or had any surgeries in the past?
P: I had, like, a scope on my knee when I was, like, a teenager. I injured it playing soccer, but that's it.
D: Okay. Okay. Any family history of any heart or lung conditions?
P: My grandfather had lung cancer, but he smoked his whole life.
D: Okay, and currently. So you work as a nurse. What's your living situation like? Do you live with anyone? Do you live in a house or apartment?
P: Yeah, so I live in a house with my wife, and we have a young. A daughter.
D: Okay. Has anyone in the house had similar symptoms or been feeling sick lately?
P: No, it's just been me. Yeah. My wife and daughter have been both staying home. I've been the one, only one, really kind of leaving the house for. Well, going to work and then getting most of the groceries and that sort of thing since I'm already out.
D: Okay. Okay. And currently, do you smoke at all?
P: No. Cigarettes? Well, smoke weed every once in a while.
D: Okay. And how often would you say you smoke weed?
P: Probably, like, probably once a week. Just. Yeah, just on the weekend, Maybe once.
D: Okay. And do you drink alcohol?
P: Yeah, a couple beers on the weekend? Like one or two.
D: Okay. Okay. So those are all the questions I had for you today. Do you have any questions or concerns?
P: Just concerned, possibly about COVID.
D: Okay. Yeah. So that's definitely. With you working in the hospital clinical setting, there is definitely a possibility, and a lot of the symptoms that you're having overlap with COVID symptoms. So we will definitely get a Covid swab test done for you today, it usually comes back in the next 24 to 48 hours. And until then, I would recommend that you isolate either in a room, separately, wear a mask around your family members, isolate to the best of your abilities, not go outside to see if someone else can get groceries for you guys as well. And then, depending on the test, public health, we'll contact you with further instructions. Okay.
P: Yeah, that sounds good. Thank you.
D: Yeah, you're welcome. Take care. Take care.
