D: How may I help you today?
P: I've been having, like, nasal congestion, and I've been sneezing a lot over these last couple of days, and I've also had a sore throat.
D: When did that start?
P: So the sore throat started, like, two days ago.
D: Okay. And since then you've developed this nasal congestion and you've been sneezing as well?
P: Yeah, exactly. It started a bit afterwards or around the same time?
D: Yeah. All right. And do you have any other symptoms? Do you have a fever?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: Okay. Do you have any difficulty swallowing?
P: Yeah, it has been a bit sore when eating food, but it hasn't been so painful to prevent me from eating.
D: Okay. Do you have a cough?
P: No, I haven't had a cough.
D: Okay. And do you have a runny nose? Any discharge?
P: Yeah, there's been a little bit of, like, watery discharge. My nose has been running.
D: Any ear pain or any pain in your cheeks or your head when you're bending over? Anything like that?
P: Yeah, now that you say it, yeah. When I was bending over to put my shoes on, it felt just a bit of. Just pressure on the front of my face.
D: Okay. And you haven't been feeling feverish or having. Having any chills, right?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any fatigue, malaise, any aches or pains?
P: I. No, I felt okay.
D: Yeah. I felt okay.
P: That way? That way, yeah.
D: Any rashes?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. Have you been up to date with your immunizations?
P: I have, yes.
D: Right. And just. Just a couple more questions just to see if anything else is going on. Do you have a headache at all?
P: Yeah, I've had a headache since this morning. It's pretty mild. It feels like my head is squeezing. I think I've had headaches like this before if I don't sleep well or dehydrated.
D: Yeah. Are you more stressed out than usual? Do you have exams or anything going on right now?
P: No. School's been pretty good. We've been doing a lot of stuff online, so, yeah, that's been good.
D: Okay. Do you find that your eyes are runny or red or anything like that?
P: No, I haven't noticed anything like that.
D: Okay. All right. And any difficulties breathing?
P: No.
D: Any chest pain?
P: No chest pain.
D: Okay. Any pain in your belly or any problems with your bowel movements?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any urinary symptoms?
P: No.
D: Okay. All right, good. So can you tell me if you have any medical conditions?
P: No, I've. I had dermatitis when I was a kid, but I haven't had any issues since. I used. I remember using some creams for that, but I haven't needed to use them recently.
D: Okay. And any medications that you're taking currently, including over the counter pills?
P: I don't take anything currently.
D: Okay. Did you take any medications to soothe your. To reduce the symptoms that you're having? The headache or the sore throat?
P: Oh, sorry. Yeah, I used some Advil this morning. I think it was 400 milligrams.
D: Okay. And do you have any allergies?
P: Yeah, to cats.
D: Have you been around a cat recently?
P: No. We used to have a cat, but unfortunately we were unable to keep it because allergies were so bad.
D: Yeah. Do you have any environmental allergies at all?
P: Yeah, sometimes in the spring or fall I can get like itchy eyes and a runny nose, so that's why I didn't think much about the runny nose at first. But with the sore throat and been sneezing more, I thought to come in.
D: Yeah. Okay, so in terms of your general information, do you live alone or do you live with your parents or any or anyone else?
P: Yeah, I live with my mom, dad and a younger brother.
D: All right. And are you currently working or going to school?
P: Yeah, I'm in finishing up grade eight and we're doing the courses online.
D: Okay, great. So have you spent any time outdoors or spent time with people who you think might be sick?
P: Well, I've played some basketball outside with one of the neighbors, but I don't think he's been sick.
D: Okay. All right. And have you traveled anywhere recently?
P: No, I've been at home.
D: Okay. All right. And do you. Have you had these symptoms anytime recently before? Have you?
P: No. No, not that I can think of, no.
D: Have you been tested for Covid anytime in the recent past?
P: No, I haven't.
D: Have you taken any antibiotics recently?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. All right. Well, it sounds like you're probably having just a common cold, likely viral, and think that it's only been two days. Have your symptoms gotten better or worse in the past couple of days?
P: They've gotten worse since it started, yeah.
D: Okay, well, it's only been two days so far. Let's just keep an eye on your symptoms and see how you're doing. It might also be a good idea just to get a Covid swab done. And if your symptoms continue to worsen, give me a call again and we can talk about it a little bit more and see if maybe a bacterial infection or if there's something else that's going on. You don't have any difficulties breathing, do you?
P: No, I don't.
D: Alright. Okay. All right. We'll do a physical exam and then try a bit more after.
P: Okay? Thank you.
