D: What brought you in today?
P: Yeah, so I've just been feeling a bit off over the last week. First I started having like just a scratchy throat and then so that was probably, I think five days ago that happened. And then over the last three days I've been having diarrhea and also my. My whole body's just hurting.
D: Okay, and so when did the sore throat start?
P: I would say like 5 days ago it started and it first just began as like kind of a tickle, but then now it's more like even swallowing like food hurts a lot.
D: Okay. Have you been eating? Eating or drinking less than usual?
P: Yeah, my appetite's been a bit less over the last few days just because of how much it hurts.
D: Okay, have you noticed any neck swelling?
P: No, not. Not really.
D: Okay. Or how about any redness in the back of your throat?
P: I checked. I didn't see. I didn't see too much.
D: Okay, and have there been any changes to your voice?
P: A little bit. Like, I wouldn't say too significant.
D: Okay. And muscle aches, like, when did those start?
P: Yeah, so that started just three days ago. And I remember waking up and my thighs were hurting, then my upper arms, and then it kind of went into my upper back. And now it's kind of just general pain in all of the muscles.
D: Okay, are you, are you having any muscle weakness?
P: I would say it's mainly pain. I don't really feel weakness.
D: Okay, and how has your energy been? Have you been having fatigue?
P: Yeah, I would say I don't know if it's because of the pain, but I definitely feel a lot more tired.
D: Okay, and you mentioned diarrhea as well. When did that start?
P: So yeah, diarrhea also started around three days ago. I normally go one or two times a day, but now I'm going like six, seven times a day and it's all usually pretty watery.
D: Okay, have you noticed any blood in the stool?
P: No, I don't think I noticed blood.
D: Okay, and have you noticed any really like dark or tarry looking stool?
P: No, it's usually just been loose, watery stools.
D: Okay, and have you been experiencing any other symptoms besides the sore throat, muscle aches, fatigue and diarrhea?
P: No, I don't think so. Those are probably all the symptoms.
D: Okay, so quickly to run through a review. Have you been having any fevers or chills?
P: No, not that I've noticed.
D: Okay, how about any headaches?
P: No.
D: Okay. Have you had a runny nose?
P: No.
D: Have you had a loss of smell or taste?
P: I don't think so. I haven't been really eating too much recently, but I don't think so. No.
D: Okay. Have you had a cough?
P: No.
D: Shortness of breath?
P: Nope.
D: Wheeze?
P: No. Wheezing? No.
D: Okay. And have you. You said you haven't had a cough, but have you brought up any sputum?
P: No.
D: Okay. And have you had any chest pain?
P: No chest pain.
D: All right. Any dizziness or lightheadedness?
P: Nope.
D: Any feeling as though your heart is racing?
P: No.
D: Okay. Have you had any abdominal pain?
P: Maybe just a little bit with all the diarrhea? I feel like I do have some. Just tenderness in my abdomen.
D: Okay, and have you had any nausea or vomiting?
P: No, not really.
D: Okay. Have you had any urinary problems?
P: No.
D: Okay. And any rashes anywhere?
P: No, not that I've noticed.
D: Okay.
P: And.
D: Have you had any changes to your weight recently or over the last several months?
P: No, my weight's been around the same.
D: Okay.
P: And.
D: Have you been diagnosed with any medical conditions before?
P: Yeah, so I have a high blood pressure and high cholesterol.
D: Okay. Do you take any medications for either of those?
P: Yeah, so for the cholesterol, I'm taking this medication called Crestor. For the high blood pressure, I'm taking this medication called Ramapro.
D: Okay, and do you take any other medications, like, over the counter or supplements or prescribed.
P: Just multivitamins.
D: Okay. Have you been hospitalized before.
P: Just as. Like, in my teens, I had my appendix removed, but that's it. I have been pretty good otherwise.
D: Okay. Have you had any other surgeries besides the appendix removed?
P: No, that's the only surgery.
D: Okay. And any allergies to medications?
P: No, not that I know of.
D: Okay. And can you tell me a little bit about your living situation? Yeah.
P: So I currently live with my wife and son. I've kind of distanced, so we live in a house just in London. And, like, I made sure to just isolate myself to one room, and I wear a mask around them just in case.
D: Okay, that's good. Yeah. It's important to be socially distancing, especially when having symptoms. Has anybody else in that house been sick?
P: No, no one has been sick recently, at least in my house. But I do. Like, just two weeks ago, I did attend a family event, and just last week, I found out someone was having symptoms. They just got tested just two days ago, and their test result hasn't come back.
D: Okay, I see. And have you traveled anywhere, like, outside of the province or outside of the country?
P: No, it was. It was just here in London, So just nothing other than that? I haven't left the province.
D: Okay. And what was the approximate number of people?
P: It was just five. Five people. So we stayed within the limits stated for the city. And they were people in, like, my circle as well, so. Yeah, I don't think I was doing anything wrong.
D: Okay. Just helps to give an idea of, like, risk and contact tracing as well if we need to. And do you smoke? Cigarettes?
P: No, I don't smoke.
D: Okay. And do you drink alcohol?
P: Yeah, maybe one or two beers a week.
D: Okay. And do you use any recreational drugs?
P: No, never.
D: Okay.
P: And.
D: In terms of family history, is anybody in the family have any heart or lung conditions?
P: No, not that I know of. I do think my. My brother. My older brother has high blood pressure.
D: Okay. Nobody's had a heart attack or a stroke.
P: No.
D: Or any cancer in the.
P: In the family? Oh, yeah. Cancer. So my father has. It's not. It's not the bad skin cancer. It's. It's the one where they. They can just zap it off.
D: Okay. Okay. And see. Yeah. Has it needed surgery for it?
P: No.
D: Okay. And I think that's all the questions that I wanted to ask today. Was there anything else that. That maybe I forgot to tell you or forgot to ask you about?
P: Yeah, no, I was just wondering. I don't know, the results of the contact that I had. So should I also get tested today?
D: Yeah, certainly. With non specific symptoms, such as what you've been experiencing. We will do a test for Covid today. However, we'll do some lab investigations as well because it could be something else. So we'll wait for some of those results to come back. And it's great that you've already taken the initiative to isolate from family members and whatnot. And so I'll ask you to continue doing so and we will get back to you when the results are in.
P: Okay? Yeah, that sounds good. Thank you so much.
