D: So what brings you in here today at the family clinic?
P: I've been coughing these last two weeks since I got back from Mexico. I think I got sick there.
D: Okay, so just the last couple weeks you've been coughing?
P: Yeah, ever since I got back from Mexico, it's been. Yeah, so about two weeks.
D: Okay. And is your cough a wet cough or a dry cough?
P: It's dry. I'm not bringing up any sputum.
D: Okay. And are you popping up any blood at all?
P: No blood, no.
D: Okay. And is the cough constant or does it come and go?
P: It comes and goes. I would say sometimes it can be worse. Yeah, depending on what I'm doing. I guess if I'm exercising or if it's really cold outside, it might get worse.
D: Okay, and do you feel that it's been getting worse at all, your cough?
P: Not really. I think it's about the same.
D: Okay, and anything that you did when you were in Mexico that you think might have caused your cough?
P: I don't know. Maybe I was drinking a little bit too much and partying a little bit too much, so might have got sick while I was there.
D: I see. Did you have any cold symptoms like runny nose, sore throat, anything like that when you were there or after you came back?
P: No, Sometimes my eyes can get a little itchy, but no runny nose or sore throat.
D: Okay. Have you had any previous episodes that are similar to how you're feeling now?
P: Maybe years ago when I was in elementary school, but nothing for the last few years.
D: Okay, and how often are you coughing? Let's say in an average day.
P: It's. It's pretty variable. I would say. If I'm exercising, it, it'll throw me into a coughing fit, and. And sometimes it's really bugging me at night, too. It'll affect me. It's impairing my sleep.
D: Okay, and so exercise makes it worse. Anything that you do that helps you relieve the cough?
P: Actually, yeah. I tried my son's inhaler and it seemed to actually help. But one of the days I just couldn't seem to stop the cough and I wanted to sleep, so I gave it a try, and it seemed to actually help with the cough.
D: Okay, and so your son has inhalers. Does he have asthma?
P: Yeah, he does. Yeah. He was diagnosed with asthma a couple years ago.
D: Okay, and have you previously been diagnosed with asthma?
P: I think they've said it before when I was young, but I haven't had any symptoms for years.
D: Okay, and besides the cough, do you have any other symptoms, like any Cold symptoms like runny nose, sore throat right now, or even, like, any chest pain?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. And do you have any symptoms like a headache or nausea or vomiting?
P: No, no headache, nausea, or vomiting.
D: Okay. Is your cough at all worse during the day or at night, or does it just. Is it around the same throughout the day?
P: I think the cough's worse at night.
D: Okay. And do you ever feel that you're short of breath at all?
P: Yeah, so it affects me if I'm outside, and that's actually usually when my eyes will get itchy too.
D: Okay. And have you had any eczema in the past?
P: Yeah, I had. I had eczema when I was younger. I think that was when I was in elementary school as well.
D: Okay. Have you had any fevers or chills recently?
P: No.
D: Any night sweats?
P: No.
D: Have you been feeling increasingly tired throughout the day?
P: No, my energy has been good. I just get short of breath or have these coughing fits if I exert myself.
D: Okay. Have you noticed any swelling in your feet or hands? No. Any dizziness?
P: No dizziness.
D: Do you ever feel your heart is racing? You get, like, these thumping, like heart palpitations?
P: Nothing like that.
D: Okay. And you said no chest pain, right?
P: No chest pain.
D: Okay. Have you noticed any changes in your bowel movements? Any constipation or diarrhea?
P: No diarrhea.
D: Okay. Any changes in your urinary patterns?
P: No, everything's been normal.
D: Okay. So you mentioned, like, the cough's been keeping you up at night. How. How often are you waking up at night? Is it pretty frequent?
P: I would say two or three nights a week. Over these last two weeks, it's been. It's been worse.
D: Okay. Have you noticed any changes in your weight at all?
P: My weight's been about the same.
D: Okay. Any changes in your appetite?
P: No. Been eating well.
D: Okay. Any recent exposures to anyone with tuberculosis that you know of?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. Have you lost your sense of taste or smell recently?
P: Neither of those.
D: Okay. And have you been exposed to any fumes or dust in your surrounding area, or do you have any pets or animals at home?
P: Yeah, we have a. Two cats, but nothing at work.
D: Okay, and how long have you had those cats for?
P: We've had them for almost a year.
D: Okay. And other than eczema and remote history of perhaps asthma when you were younger, any other medical conditions like diabetes or high blood pressure that you've been diagnosed with?
P: No, I've been healthy that way.
D: Okay. Any medications that you're on?
P: Currently, no medications.
D: Okay. Do you know of any. Allergies to any environmental exposures or any medications at all?
P: Yeah, I think I'm allergic to pollen and some other environmental allergies as well.
D: Okay. And when you cough, have you ever noticed, like, wheezing noises at all?
P: Occasionally, yeah, I do notice a wheeze.
D: Okay, and have you ever been hospitalized before?
P: No, I haven't.
D: Any previous surgeries?
P: No surgeries.
D: Okay, and has anyone around you been ill recently?
P: Everybody's been healthy.
D: Okay, and do you have any family history of cancers or anything related to the lungs at all?
P: No. I mean, my sister had eczema as well, but that's it.
D: Okay, that's it. Okay. Any heart attacks in your family, any other medical conditions?
P: No, everyone's healthy.
D: Okay. And currently, what is your living situation like?
P: Yeah, so I live in an apartment nearby with my boyfriend.
D: Okay, and has there been any. Have you moved there recently or have you. How long have you lived there for?
P: We've lived there for about four years now.
D: Four years. Okay. And has anything changed recently? Has there been any mold or new carpets that you guys got? Anything new in the house?
P: I don't. I don't think so.
D: Okay. And do you currently work?
P: Yeah, I work as a school teacher.
D: Okay. And do you smoke at all?
P: No, I don't.
D: Have you ever smoked?
P: I did. Yeah. I smoked a pack a day up until just about a month ago I made it. It was a New Year's resolution to quit.
D: Oh, wow. Well, congratulations. That's. It's definitely very difficult to quit. And if you need at all, any help at all with your transition at all, we can always bring it up in any appointment.
P: Okay, thank you.
D: And in terms of recreational drugs, do you use marijuana or cocaine or any other recreational drugs?
P: Yeah, maybe I'll smoke, like one or two joints a week.
D: Okay. And do you drink alcohol?
P: Yeah, maybe a bottle of wine on the weekends.
D: Okay, so you go through, like, around a bottle every week?
P: Yeah, I would say about a bottle of wine throughout the week, but usually don't really have any during the week. Or usually, I guess, split the bottle between. Between Friday to Sunday sort of thing.
D: Okay. And in terms of exercise, do you find that you're getting adequate exercise throughout the week?
P: I tried to. I tried to run and go for walks, but always trying to be a little bit more active.
D: Okay. All right. So, yeah, those are all the questions I had for you today. Do you have any other questions for me?
P: Nope. That was it.
D: Okay. So based on what we talked about, it seems that based on your past history and the coughing that you're having right now. One of the things that we definitely want to look at is if you do, in fact, have asthma, it can also be like a viral upper respiratory tract infection. But we will do some pulmonary function tests for you and see if the bronchodilators, just like you, use the inhaler from your son, if that helps you with your symptoms, and then we can go from there.
P: That sounds great. Thank you.
D: You're welcome. Take care.
