D: What brings you in to see us?
P: So I've just been having this cough that I feel has just been getting worse. And I've also been feeling a bit short of breath for the last few months.
D: Okay, could you tell me when the cough started?
P: So I would say it started around two months ago.
D: Okay, and has the cough been dry or have you been bringing up sputum?
P: It usually always produces, like, the sputum, and it's usually white or yellowish in color.
D: Okay, and how much sputum are you producing each day? Sometimes it's useful to think about, like teaspoons or tablespoons.
P: I would say every time I cough like a teaspoon, I probably have, like, I don't know, maybe five to ten teaspoons a day.
D: Okay, and is there any particular time of day that the cough is worse?
P: Not really. It's pretty. Pretty much the same. Sometimes it is worse in the morning, but yeah, and sometimes it gets better when I go out for a smoke.
D: Okay, and have you noticed any blood?
P: No, I haven't noticed any blood.
D: Okay, and have you had. So you had shortness of breath. When did that start?
P: It's around two months ago, around the same time.
D: Okay, and do you have shortness of breath at rest or is it when you exert yourself?
P: It's. It can happen, like, at any time, but worse when I. When am exerting myself.
D: Okay, and have you had a cough before?
P: Not as frequently, I would say. Not really. It just started in the last two to three months.
D: Okay, and have you had shortness of breath like this before?
P: Just throughout my life. I've had asthma. So when I am exercising too much or get exposed to, like, dust, sometimes I have shortness of breath.
D: Okay, has there been anything besides exerting yourself that's made either the cough or shortness of breath worse.
P: Over the last year? Like, I've had a couple chest infections after going to the er. They gave me some antibiotics, but yeah, when that happens, it usually gets worse. The shortness of breath and the cough.
D: Okay, and do your symptoms feel like any of those times right now?
P: No, I don't feel like I have a fever and no other symptoms, just the shortness of breath and cough.
D: Okay, and have you been doing anything that's made it better?
P: I've been taking some Tylenol. Cold hasn't really helped too much. I've tried my inhalers. They sometimes help, but I've never had this frequent coughing and shortness of breath before.
D: Okay, and how has your energy been? Have you Been experiencing fatigue.
P: When it gets really bad, then I can't really step out of the house. But other than that, I feel like my energy is still there.
D: Okay, and you have it. Have you had any fevers or chills?
P: No.
D: Okay, how about a loss of smell?
P: No.
D: A loss of taste?
P: Nope.
D: Okay, and have you had any chest pain?
P: No. Just sometimes when I'm, like, coughing a lot, it gets a little bit uncomfortable, but other than that? No.
D: Okay. Have you had any instances where you felt like your heart was racing?
P: No.
D: Okay, how about being lightheaded or like you were gonna pass out?
P: Nope.
D: Okay, have you had a runny nose or a sore throat?
P: Nope.
D: Okay, and how about headaches?
P: No headaches.
D: All right, and have you had any wheezing?
P: Sometimes I've noticed it, but I had it before, like, with asthma as well. But not. Not that much.
D: Okay, and how about abdominal pain?
P: No abdominal pain.
D: All right, any urinary problems?
P: Nope.
D: Any bowel problems?
P: No.
D: Any rashes?
P: Nope.
D: Okay, and then how about any muscle aches or joint aches or body aches?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: All right, you mentioned asthma, but have you been diagnosed with any other medical conditions?
P: No, just asthma.
D: Okay, and do you use inhalers? Are there any other medications you're currently using?
P: No, just the salbutamol and, like, the steroid inhaler.
D: Okay. And how often are you using both of those?
P: So the steroid one I using pretty much every day, but the salbutamol I found, I've been using lot more recently. I would say probably at least six to 10 times in a week.
D: Okay. And it reminded me, I forgot to ask, have you noticed any changes to your voice?
P: No, not really.
D: Okay. And I was wondering if you had any allergies to medications.
P: No, not that I know of.
D: All right, and have you been in the hospital recently?
P: No.
D: All right, so when was the last time that you had antibiotics?
P: I would say, like, six months ago.
D: Okay. And any surgeries?
P: Nope.
D: Okay. And did you get a flu shot this year?
P: Yep.
D: Okay, great. And I was wondering if you could tell me a little bit about your living situation.
P: So I live in London in a small apartment with my wife.
D: Okay. Do you have any pets around?
P: No, no pets.
D: All right. And any exposures at work to, like, dust or any types of, like, chemicals like that?
P: No, not really. My work is pretty much a desk job, so nothing like that.
D: Okay. And you smoke cigarettes? Yeah.
P: Yeah, I smoke a lot of cigarettes. Just like, I would say 30 cigarettes day.
D: Okay, and how long have you smoked for?
P: I would say probably at least 25 years.
D: Okay. And sorry, could you remind me of your age again?
P: I'm 60 years old now.
D: Okay, so you started smoking around 35?
P: Yeah.
D: Okay. Have you tried to quit? Yeah, tried to quit.
P: I've even quit a couple times, but then just got back onto it. Not. Not really ready to quit.
D: That's fair enough. If there's something that you wanted to talk about, quitting smoking at another appointment, we can arrange follow up for that. Do you drink alcohol?
P: Not that much. Just I would say one or two beers on the weekend.
D: All right, and do you use any recreational drugs like cocaine, crystal meth?
P: No.
D: Or IV drugs?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: All right, and is it anything similar like this happened in your family before?
P: I think my sister has copd. Like she smokes a lot too, but that's. That's about. I don't know if that's genetic.
D: Okay, so anybody in the family have cancers?
P: No, not that I know of.
D: All right, so that was all the questions that I wanted to ask on history. Was there any other questions that you had?
P: No, not really. Just wanted to get to the bottom of this. Okay.
D: For sure. So we will run some investigations and likely get a chest X ray because it's been a couple of months that these symptoms have been going on for. But I think it could be related to your smoking and most likely chronic bronchitis. But we could definitely be looking into this and then also with possibly some pulmonary function tests as well.
P: Okay, sounds good.
