D: How may I help you?
P: Hi there. I brought in my tear because he's been barking. He's been. Well, not barking. He's had this cough that sounds like a barking cough, and he's having a really hard time taking in a deep breath. And when he does, it sounds. It sounds harsh.
D: Okay, and when did the cough start?
P: It started about two days ago.
D: Okay. Is it a dry cough or a wet cough?
P: It sounds pretty dry, yeah.
D: All right, so there's been no sputum and no hemoptysis?
P: No.
D: Okay. And does the cough happen at any particular time of day?
P: I mean, no. Well, actually, mostly at night, but also it happens throughout the day, but, yeah, more so at night.
D: Okay, and has there been any shortness of breath or difficulty breathing?
P: No shortness of breath or difficulty breathing. It just sounds harsh when he does take a deep breath in.
D: Okay. And any changes to his voice or. Yeah, like, does it say. Does he sound any different? Like a hot potato voice?
P: No, it doesn't sound like that.
D: Okay, and you mentioned. Oh, sorry. Has he had any changes to the sound of his breathing?
P: The sound of his breathing? It sounds like. It sounds harsh when he takes a deep breath in.
D: Okay, so that sounds like he's having some stridor. Has he been having any wheezing?
P: You mean like when he exhales? Yeah, it's more when he inhales that I hear it.
D: Okay. Okay. And has he had any eye redness or any eye discharge?
P: No, I haven't noticed anything like that.
D: Has he had a runny nose?
P: No.
D: Okay. Has he had a sore throat?
P: No sore throat.
D: Okay. And have you had a chance to look in his mouth? Has he had any, like, any redness or any swelling in the back of his mouth?
P: I took a look. It didn't look swollen.
D: Okay. And no shortness of breath, I think you said.
P: Yeah. No shortness of breath.
D: Okay. And has he had a sore throat?
P: No.
D: Okay. And any changes to his sense of smell or sense of taste?
P: Not that I've noticed.
D: Okay. And how has his appetite been?
P: Not as great as it usually is, but he's still eating.
D: Okay. How has his mood and behavior been?
P: He's been a little bit more fussy than usual.
D: Okay. And eating less as well?
P: He's been eating less, but not like, much less. I still try to get something in him.
D: Okay, that's good. And has he had any chest pain?
P: No, I don't think so. He hasn't complained of it or anything to make me think that he has any chest pain.
D: Okay. And has he had any fainting or mentioned that he's dizzy at all?
P: No.
D: Okay. Does he have any headaches?
P: I don't think so. He hasn't complained of that.
D: Okay. Any ear pain or ear discharge?
P: No.
D: Okay. Does he have any abdominal pain?
P: No.
D: Does he have any diarrhea or constipation?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any blood in the stool?
P: No.
D: Okay. And any skin rashes?
P: No, not that I noticed.
D: Okay. Has he mentioned anything about muscle aches or joint pains?
P: No, he hasn't.
D: Okay. And has he had any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Okay. And has he been diagnosed with any medical conditions in the past?
P: No, he's been a pretty healthy child.
D: Okay. And sorry, just to go back and just summarize the symptoms overall, so he's had a barking cough that started two days ago as well as some stridor or some noise on inhalation. And, and this reminds me, has he had any fevers or chills?
P: He has had a fever, actually. It was 38.7 yesterday.
D: Okay. And any night sweats?
P: No. He hasn't seemed sweaty at night? No.
D: Okay. And has he had any weight loss in the last several months?
P: No.
D: Okay, and you said he hasn't been diagnosed with any medical conditions before. So has he had any reasons to be hospitalized or any surgeries?
P: No, he's been a pretty healthy child.
D: Okay, that's great. And any allergies that you're aware of?
P: I think he's allergic to penicillin.
D: Alright, what's the reaction?
P: He just gets a rash.
D: Okay, and are his immunizations up to date?
P: Yes.
D: All right, and currently who is he living with?
P: He lives with his. Both his parents and his older sister.
D: Okay. And has anybody in the family been sick or has he been around anybody who's been sick?
P: No, everyone's been pretty healthy.
D: Okay. Has there been any travel recently?
P: No, no one's traveled recently.
D: Okay. And does anybody smoke in the home? No. All right, and any concerns for him being exposed to any forms of physical or emotional or verbal abuse or any violence in the home?
P: Oh, no. No.
D: Okay. And is he like going to daycare or who's the primary caregiver at home?
P: It's usually his mom. Yeah.
D: Okay. And were there any complications throughout pregnancy such as gestational diabetes or high blood pressure?
P: No.
D: All right, and any complications with delivery and was it vaginal or C section?
P: It was vaginal and no complications.
D: All right. And up to this point has he been meeting his milestones for like talking, walking and things like that?
P: Yeah, that's right.
D: Okay. And any concerns for his vision or hearing?
P: No.
D: Okay. And has he been growing normally?
P: Yeah, he's hit all his milestones.
D: Excellent. Okay. And are there any conditions in the family, such as heart or lung disease?
P: No.
D: Okay. How about asthma or things like allergic rhinitis and allergies?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay, So I think that was all the questions that I wanted to ask today on history. Was there anything else that I maybe forgot to ask about or that you wanted to mention?
P: No, that was kind of it. What should I do for him?
D: So it sounds like the most likely diagnosis now is something called croup or laryngeal tracheobronchitis, which is basically a viral infection of the upper respiratory tract areas, and so it can cause the barky cough and stridor and fever. And so if so, it's really supportive care. And unless he decompensates and becomes really short of breath and worse, in which case we could. The treatment would be steroids and possibly utilizing other things as well, depending on his symptoms. But usually it will be steroids and maybe some oxygen as well. But if he stays relatively stable, then it's mostly supportive care, just making sure he's hydrated as much as possible. You can use, like, humidified air, sometimes like a hot shower. That sort of thing can maybe help relieve the cough at night.
P: Okay.
D: But that's about it.
P: Okay.
D: So we'll just observe for now.
P: Okay, that sounds good. Thank you.
