D: Brings you in.
P: I've been very concerned lately. This past week, I first just started having this really bad headache, and then my body that just completely all started hurting after completely rest. And then three days ago, I just started having a lot of chills, and I had a pretty high fever of. Just two days ago of almost like. I think it was like, 38, nine. And yes, I was just very concerned, and I came here today.
D: Okay. Yeah, it's good that you came in. Let's rewind a little bit and get a full history. So you said the. What started first, the fever or headache?
P: So the headache started first. So that was around four days ago.
D: Okay.
P: And three days ago, like, my body just started aching all over the place. And then just. Just two days ago, I noticed that I had a fever, and I've been getting a fever since then as well. Like, even today, I was having chills.
D: Okay. Okay. And you said the highest recorded temp, your highest recorded temperature was 39.
P: 38. 9. Like, 38.9.
D: Okay. Where. Okay. So the headache started four days ago. Is it persistent or constant or does it come and go?
P: It was pretty constant. The headache kind of got better yesterday, but last few days, it's just been constant headache pretty much every day.
D: Okay. Okay. Does anything make it better or worse?
P: Just some rest. And I tried to take some Tylenol to get rid of it. Took some Advil as well. It did help a little bit, but it just kind of came back after the medication wore out.
D: Mm. How long does a headache last when you get it?
P: If I don't take medications, it can last, honestly, the whole day.
D: Okay. Yeah. And if you were to describe it, is it sharp, dull, achy?
P: It's just achy. And it's kind of all over the front of my forehead. Sometimes it's just like, a throbbing pain.
D: Okay. All right. And you said it's mostly at the front of your head. How about near the crown of your head? Temples.
P: It can go to the temples sometimes, but mostly it's my forehead.
D: Okay. Okay. And severity wise, 1 to 10. 10 being the worst headache you've ever. Worst pain you've ever felt. How bad is it right now?
P: It's not that bad. Probably like two or three. But when it was just a few days ago, it was like, probably an 8 or 9.
D: Yeah. Okay. And then have you ever experienced something like this before?
P: No, I'm not usually one to get headaches. My wife, she gets migraines, but, like, I rarely ever have headaches.
D: Yeah. Okay. And then you mentioned the headache is getting a little bit better now.
P: Yeah, the headache has improved a bit. The body aches are still there and the fever is still there. But like the headaches I feel have gone down.
D: Okay. All right. And have you had any fainting spells or dizziness?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Any confusion or memory loss?
P: No.
D: Any neck pain?
P: Not neck pain, but like just below my neck. Like my back, upper back hurts as well.
D: Okay. Okay. And any weight loss recently?
P: No, I don't. I don't think so.
D: Any excessive fatigue?
P: Yeah, I have been feeling pretty tired and just. I haven't even gone to work this whole week, just kind of laying in bed. Honestly, with all the pain of and the fever and headaches, just. Yeah, it's exhausting.
D: Yeah. Okay. Any changes in your hair, nails or skin, like rashes?
P: No, nothing that I've noticed.
D: Okay, how about changes in your vision or hearing?
P: No, no.
D: Okay, how about stuffy nose or runny nose?
P: I do feel a bit more stuffy. Like today, just. There's no like runny nose or anything like that. But I do feel a bit more pressure and stuffy stuffiness in my face today.
D: Okay. Okay. How about changes in smell or taste?
P: Yeah, I think just last night, dinner just. It was just kind of a funky like different taste. It couldn't really tell. Everything was kind of a bit bland. Yes. I think my taste buds are acting all weird too.
D: Okay, any coughing or shortness of breath?
P: No, no, I haven't been coughing or. No shortness of breath at all.
D: Okay, how about wheezing?
P: No, no wheezing.
D: Okay. Any chest pain?
P: No.
D: Okay, how about feeling like your heart's racing?
P: No, nothing like that?
D: No. Okay. Okay. Any swelling that you've noticed in your limbs?
P: Nope.
D: No. Any issues with their bowel movements or urine?
P: No, nothing.
D: Okay, how about nausea or vomiting?
P: No, no nausea, vomiting.
D: And those were all the questions I had about your symptoms. Are you otherwise healthy or do you have any long standing medical conditions?
P: Yeah, I have a couple conditions that I see my family doctor for. I do have diabetes. Then I have high cholesterol. I also have this thing called fatty liver.
D: Okay.
P: Yeah, but that's about it. And a high blood pressure.
D: Okay. When were you diagnosed with all of these things?
P: Yeah, probably like it all kind of went down in. In my 40s. I did gain a lot of weight at some point during my 40s and that's when all these things started happening.
D: Okay, so you said diabetes, high blood pressure, fatty liver and. Sorry, what was the other one?
P: High cholesterol, high Cholesterol.
D: Okay. Are you on medications for all of these things?
P: Yeah, so I am on a statin medication for the cholesterol, then I'm on metformin, and then I'm on a blood pressure medication as well. I can't recall the name. So, yeah, those are the medications that I'm on.
D: Okay. And do you take your medications regularly as prescribed?
P: Yeah, I don't miss any doses.
D: Okay, good. Are you up to date with all your immunizations?
P: Yeah, I think so.
D: Okay, good. Do you have any allergies?
P: No, no allergies.
D: Okay. How about family history of lung conditions or heart conditions?
P: Yeah, so I have a pretty significant family history for heart conditions. My father passed away from a heart attack in his 50s. My mom has high blood pressure. Diabetes is also pretty big in my family as well.
D: Okay, well, I'm sorry to hear that. Any cancers in the family?
P: No, no cancers.
D: Okay. Do you smoke?
P: I used to when I was in my 30s. I quit pretty long time ago.
D: Okay. How much did you smoke before that?
P: I probably smoked up until I was 35. So for. For probably, like 10 years. From 25 to 35. And probably smoked a pack a day at that time.
D: Okay. Yeah. And do you drink alcohol?
P: I've been told, like, not to for my liver, but I sometimes maybe have the rare red wine maybe once a month.
D: Once a month. Okay. Any other recreational drugs?
P: No, no recreational drugs.
D: Okay, no recreational drugs. And where do you live? Right now.
P: I just live with my wife in an apartment in the city.
D: And.
P: Yeah.
D: Okay. Any old carpet dust, mold, anything that is concerning from that standpoint?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. And have you been in contact with anyone who's been sick recently?
P: Not that I know of. I still do go to work. I just have, like, a desk job. I have my own room. It's not like I don't see too many people. And, like, when I do, I'm wearing a mask, so I don't think so.
D: Okay.
P: I have stopped going to work, though. Like, just. Just in case.
D: Okay, good. Okay. And have you traveled to anywhere recently?
P: No, we've been pretty homebound.
D: Pretty homebound. Okay. All right, well, that's good. And those are all the questions that I had for you. Did you have any questions for myself?
P: Yeah, I don't know. What do you think is causing all of this?
D: Yeah, it sounds like you have some sort of infection, so the first thing we need to rule out is Covid. Of course. So we'll do a swab, and those swabs should come back to you. In about 24 to 48 hours. And until then it's important that you do isolate and you isolate for 14 days at least, and that includes from other people at home. And if those swabs come back negative, you could possibly have like another infection. But if your symptoms worsen, like you start getting neurological deficits like weakness or seizures or anything like that, you should come back to the ER and we'll get that checked out. So that's where we'll start for now. Because your presentation is acute, we think it is likely infection related.
P: Okay, that sounds good to me. And should I be staying in my own room and anything like that at home?
D: Yeah, if you can. It's recommended that you try to isolate in your own room for the next 14 days because your symptoms do overlap with that of COVID Yeah.
P: Okay, Sounds good. Thank you.
D: Yeah, no worries. Take care too.
