D: Could you start with telling me what brought you in today?
P: Hi, Chris. I've just been so, like, weak and so tired. I just. I can't. I can't seem to, like, get off the couch. Like, I'll get up from my bed and go lay on the couch, and then, you know, I might be able to get something to eat, but I just. I get so tired so fast, and I don't know. I don't know what's wrong.
D: Okay, when did these symptoms start?
P: Like, I've been feeling pretty tired for, like, a week, but, like, this bad for, like, maybe four days.
D: Okay, and so it sounds like you haven't been going to work or, like, anything like that because you've been so kind of tired and weak.
P: Yeah, I mean, at first I was already kind of working. I'm a. I'm a truck driver. So, you know, once you start the job, you kind of have to finish. But I was supposed to go on another. Another trip, like, four days ago, and I just couldn't. I had to call my boss and say that I can't.
D: Okay, have you had any, like, specific muscle weakness, like, in your legs or in your arms? Or would you say it's overall, like, a general weakness?
P: It's just everywhere. It's not like I can't move. I'm just really, really tired.
D: Okay, and how have you been sleeping?
P: I mean, I've just been sleeping, like, all the time. I've been sleeping all night, and then, like I said, I get up and I go to the couch and just fall back asleep.
D: Okay, have you been having any other symptoms?
P: I mean, my throat is maybe a little sore, but nothing else.
D: Okay, and when did the sore throat first start?
P: Probably about a week ago. It's not really bad. It's there.
D: So it started just before the weakness and fatigue?
P: Yeah, around the same time.
D: Okay, and have you been having any pain with swallowing?
P: Maybe a little bit.
D: Okay. Like, with, like, solid foods or liquids or both?
P: It's just like. It's just like. It's a little. A little tender. It's not like really. It's not like, hard to swallow or anything. It just feels like it's like my throat's kind of tired.
D: Okay. Have you had any changes to your voice?
P: No, I don't think so. I mean, I live alone, so I can't really ask someone else if I have.
D: Okay, but your voice sounds the same to you?
P: Yeah, I think so.
D: All right. And so have you been having any fevers or chills?
P: I've been feeling really cold.
D: Okay. Have you had any, like, shakes or rigors?
P: I've been, like, kind of. Kind of shivering.
D: Okay. How about any night sweats?
P: Yeah, come to think of it, like, I was. I was. When I was last traveling, like, when I was last on. Because I'm a truck driver, I was in the States. I had to bring something to Ohio and I had to change my clothes in the night. They were just, like, so drenched in sweat.
D: Okay. Has that happened more than that? That one time or.
P: Maybe a couple times that it wasn't as bad? That one time was really bad. But here and there, like, I've been feeling pretty sweaty at night in general.
D: Okay. And have you had any, like, difficulties breathing or shortness of breath?
P: Not really. Just, like, kind of tired, but it's not, like, hard to breathe.
D: Okay. Have you had a cough?
P: No.
D: Okay, how about a runny nose?
P: Maybe. Maybe a little bit. Not, like, too noticeable.
D: Okay, and when did the runny nose start?
P: It's all, like, around the same time.
D: Okay. Have you been having any headaches?
P: A little bit.
D: Okay, and then how about any chest pain?
P: No, no chest pain.
D: All right, and how about any wheezing?
P: No. No, I don't think so.
D: All right, and any heart palpitations? No. Okay. Have you felt lightheaded or like you were going to pass out or faint?
P: Not like I've been feeling really tired, but it's not been like. I don't think it's been, like, fainting.
D: Okay, so kind of like your fatigue that you've been experiencing, have you had any abdominal pain?
P: I mean, I'm not really eating a lot, so it's kind of like gurgling.
D: Okay. Have you had any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Okay. Have you had any urinary problems?
P: No.
D: Any bowel problems?
P: No. I mean, I haven't been eating that much, so I haven't been going as much as normal, but I don't think there's problems.
D: Okay, so you haven't had any diarrhea?
P: No.
D: Okay. And have you had any skin rashes?
P: No, not that I've noticed.
D: Okay. And have you had any, like, muscle aches or joint aches?
P: I mean, I feel kind of achy all over, but not in, like, one particular spot.
D: Okay. And in terms of your past health, have you been. Is there any reason you see a doctor regularly?
P: Oh, yeah, like, I have. I have high blood pressure and diabetes. That's pretty well it. But, yeah, those two things. Oh, and I take medication for my prostate.
D: Okay. And do you take medications for the blood Pressure and diabetes.
P: Yeah. Yeah. Oh, geez. What's it called? I take Ramapril and I take Metformin. I was on insulin, but I pretty Well, I just have been able to eat well, so I'm not taking. Kicking it now and then. I can't remember the prostate one, like Tam something.
D: Okay. Maybe tamsulosin.
P: That sounds right. Yeah.
D: Okay, I can check on the chart as well to confirm. Do you have any allergies to medications?
P: No.
D: All right. And any recent hospitalizations?
P: No, no, I've been pretty good.
D: Okay. And any surgeries?
P: Not for a really long time. I had my Gallbladder out, like, 20 years ago, but, yeah, that's it.
D: Okay, and has anything like this happened to any of your family members before? Kind of suddenly they started to feel fatigued like this?
P: I don't think so. I mean, we've all, like, you know, caught colds and, you know, stung my bugs and stuff, but not. Not quite like this. Like, I can barely get up.
D: Okay, anybody in the family have a history of heart disease or. Or cardiovascular disease?
P: My dad had high blood pressure. That's it.
D: Okay, Anybody in the family have cancer?
P: My mom. My mom had breast cancer.
D: Okay. And you told me that you work as a trucker. So you were over in the States, it sounds like. How recently were you in the United States?
P: That was, like, about a week ago. I probably got back five or six days ago.
D: Okay. Do you travel there often?
P: Oh, yeah. I mean, that's, you know, the route that I usually take.
D: Okay. Any. Anybody you interacted with that was sick, do you believe.
P: I don't. I don't really interact with. With many people. I kind of just go there and. And then, you know, I stayed in a hotel, but, you know, I didn't really see anyone besides, like, the lady that works there and maybe the, you know, the people at the McDonald's, like, counter. I didn't. I didn't, like, see anyone that I know that I sat with for a long time or anything.
D: Okay, but you got home about five or six days ago?
P: Yeah.
D: And who are you living with currently?
P: Just me.
D: Okay. And do you drink alcohol?
P: Oh, no, no. I used to a little bit, but not anymore.
D: Okay, and how about cigarettes? Do you smoke cigarettes?
P: I quit 10 years ago.
D: Okay.
P: I smoked. I smoked probably like a half pack a day for a while, for maybe 20 years.
D: Okay, but you quit over 10 years ago?
P: About. About 10 years ago, yeah.
D: Okay, and do you smoke marijuana?
P: No. No.
D: All right, and how about any other recreational drug use, including the use of IV drugs?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. And are you currently sexually active?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. And have you had a sexually transmitted infection before?
P: No.
D: Okay. And are you currently in a. In a relationship?
P: No. Like, I have. I have a friend that I see, and we both. We both, like, lost our spouses several years ago. And, I mean, we. We see each other and, like, we live in the same apartment building and often have meals together, but we're just, like, friends.
D: Okay.
P: The person that would check on me if I needed it.
D: Okay. That's great. It sounds like you have some good support nearby. I'm sorry to hear about your wife, but I think that was all of the questions that I wanted to ask on the history today. So next we're going to order some lab work for sure. To start with, and maybe we'll go from there. So we'll give you some fluids and maybe some Tylenol, and we will see what the lab work shows.
P: Okay. Thank you.
D: You're welcome.
