D: How may I help you?
P: Hi, yes, nice to meet you. I've been having this cough that's been going on for the last few days and have had difficulty breathing.
D: Oh, I'm so sorry to hear that. When did this start?
P: So the cough started about three days ago. The shortness of breath has come on since then.
D: Okay, well, let's focus on the shortness of breath first and then we'll talk about your cough as well. So you noticed that you had difficulties with breathing sometime over the past three days. When do you find that it's difficult for you to breathe? When did what. Is there anything that makes breathing more difficult for you?
P: I would say if I. If I'm like, yeah, yeah, not really. Actually it's been well, but just bad after I cough.
D: So, say walking up the stairs or doing any exercise, does it make it worse?
P: Not really. Yeah, I've been able to do the same amounts of. Of activity, I guess, or.
D: Okay. Okay. So there's really no relationship with activity, with your shortness of breath. Okay. And I can see that you're able to talk in full sentences, so. Okay. How is it making. Making it difficult for you to do things at home? Your difficulty breathing?
P: A little bit. I mean, I just haven't been feeling very good overall, so I. Yeah, I've been resting these last couple of days mostly.
D: Okay. And about your cough, how that started three days ago, is it a tri cough or wet cough?
P: It's. It's dry.
D: It's a dry cough. Okay. And there's no put in production with it. Anything coming up at all?
P: No, I haven't noticed any blood or anything like that.
D: Okay. Okay. And is there anything that's making the cough better? Did you take anything, any medications for it?
P: I tried some over the counter stuff, but it didn't help.
D: Okay. All right. Other than the difficulty breathing and the cough, have you noticed any symptoms, any other symptoms?
P: Yeah, I've been really tired and as I said, just sort of resting these last few days and I've had a headache as well.
D: Okay. Can you tell me a bit more about your headache?
P: Yeah, it feels like somebody's just squeezing the top or just squeezing the sides of my head.
D: Have you had a headache like this before?
P: I have, yeah. I usually get them when I'm dehydrated. Or maybe you haven't slept well. Right?
D: Yeah, yeah, yeah. And that's also been the case for the past two to three days?
P: Yeah, it's been kind of off and on there, sometimes worse than others, but I've Noticed that I had ache there for the most part the last few days.
D: Okay. Have you taken anything for your headache? Any pain meds?
P: Yeah, I've been taking some Advil. It's helped.
D: And so you talked about being tired, having a headache, difficulties breathing and coughing over the past three days. Have these symptoms, any of them gotten worse over time?
P: Yes, I would say both the cough and the shortness of breath is getting worse over these last few days.
D: Okay. And have you had any chills or have you checked your temperature?
P: I haven't checked my temperature, but I felt like I've had a fever or might be getting a fever.
D: Well, we can check your temperature here. And have you had any muscle aches?
P: Yeah, I guess I felt a bit. I have felt a bit achy.
D: Any sort of redness in the eyes or any sort of runny nose or sore throat, like flu, like symptoms?
P: I have. I don't know. My nose has felt maybe a little bit congested but not really running.
D: Okay, and have you had any change in your sense of smell?
P: No, I haven't noticed that.
D: What about your sense of taste? Are you able to taste things?
P: Yeah, I think so.
D: Okay. Have you noticed any rash anywhere on your body?
P: No, I haven't.
D: Okay. Any changes in your bowel movement, diarrhea or constipation? No, no, nothing like that. Any chest pain?
P: No, I haven't had any.
D: Okay. Okay. All right. Well, it sounds like you have multiple symptoms right now that started about three days ago. You're feeling tired, you have a headache, difficulties breathing, some muscle aches. You've been feeling feverish. You've also had a cough and your nose is feeling congested. Is there anything else that you've been experiencing over the past three days that I haven't talked about yet?
P: You mentioned the headache there too. Yep. Yeah. That's everything.
D: Right. Okay. Okay. All right. Can you tell me about your past medical history? Have any medical conditions?
P: Yeah, I have asthma and gerd, I think.
D: Does the shortness of breath that you're experiencing feel similar to your asthma attacks in any way?
P: No, I haven't had any issues with like, asthma attacks in a long time. I do have an inhaler, but I don't use it very often. I have a need to.
D: I see, I see. Did you use it over the past three days at all?
P: Yeah, I did try it and it didn't really seem to help that much.
D: Okay. And other dental asthma and gerd, have you had any surgeries in the past?
P: I had a colonoscopy two Years ago.
D: Okay. Any reason for that?
P: My father had colon cancer when he was in his 60s, so.
D: I see.
P: Yeah.
D: Okay. Okay. And any hospitalizations?
P: No.
D: Okay. Do you take any? I know you've. You've had a buffer. Any medications, including over the counter pills?
P: Yeah, I'll take like Zantac or like Tums sometimes for reflux.
D: And any allergies to food, medication? Environmental allergies?
P: Yeah, I have environmental allergies. I think like usually they come on in the springtime.
D: In terms of family history to mention that your dad had colon cancer, any other medical problems that run your family?
P: No.
D: Okay. And do you currently smoke?
P: No, I don't.
D: Have you ever smoked in the past?
P: No.
D: Okay. What about marijuana?
P: No.
D: Okay. Do you. Do you or have you ever had alcohol?
P: I will have some wine on the weekends, maybe a glass or two with dinner.
D: Okay, sounds good. And have you ever had any street drugs?
P: Like a long time ago, maybe when I was in college, once or twice, but.
D: Alright, sounds good. And have you had any contact with any sick people, anyone who's sick recently?
P: Not that I know of. I've gone, I mean, out to a few stores here and there and been going to. Been working from home, so maybe at one of the stores.
D: Then. I would imagine you were wearing a mask and of course trying to maintain social distancing as much as possible, but. Yeah, you never really know what can happen. Any. Any other travels or any travels at all outside the. The city or the country recently?
P: No. No, I've been at home.
D: All right. All right. Okay. So I guess that's all I wanted to know. I'll go talk to the attending and we'll come back and do a physical exam and maybe ask a couple more questions and then discuss the management with you. Does that sound good to you?
P: Yeah, that sounds great. Thank you.
D: Okay. All right. So.
