D: What brings you in today?
P: Yesterday, right after leaving work, I started to not feel well. And this morning I woke up with fever, this bad headache, and just feeling really sore all over.
D: Sorry, that's. That doesn't sound good. So all this started yesterday, or I guess yesterday you were not feeling too good, and then you noticed all these symptoms this morning. Did you measure your temperature?
P: Yeah, I checked it this morning, and it was 38.5.
D: And did you. Can you tell me about your headache?
P: Yeah, so I started to get a little bit of a headache last night, so I tried some Tylenol. It helped relieve the pain a little bit so I could sleep. And, um. And this morning I woke up, but I didn't have a headache at first, but it came on maybe an hour after waking up. And it feels like there's just a band around, squeezing my head.
D: Is it on both sides or only one side?
P: It's on both sides. You kind of feel it wrapping around.
D: And if you had to give it a number from 1 to 10 to 10 being the worst pain ever, what would you say?
P: About a five?
D: Okay. And do you have any other symptoms, such as a runny nose or a stuffy nose?
P: Yeah, my nose has been runny. I started noticing that a little bit yesterday, too, actually, now that you mentioned it.
D: And what was the discharge like, or what is the discharge like?
P: It's pretty runny. Yeah, it's pretty runny and clear.
D: Okay. And do you have a cough?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any sore throat?
P: No.
D: Have you had any difficulties with breathing?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any chest pain?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any, I guess, itchy eyes or itchy nose or any sneezing?
P: Yeah, well, my nose has been itchy, and I have been. I have been sneezing.
D: All right. And have you had any diarrhea or constipation?
P: No.
D: Any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any belly pain?
P: No.
D: Okay. Have you been around anyone who could have been sick.
P: Maybe? There was. One of my colleagues at work was off last week. I think he was sick with something.
D: Did he get tested? He goes. Do you know if he went to see a doctor or was he tested for Covid?
P: I'm not sure. I just know, like. Well, he wasn't there on Thursday and Friday last week, and he hasn't been there, been here this week, and I just heard that he was sick.
D: Okay. All right. And have you had any medical conditions that you've been diagnosed with?
P: Yeah, I've been told I have high cholesterol and a high bmi. Yeah. And so I take a statin Medication for that. And I've been told I have pre diabetes as well, so I've been trying to work on diet.
D: Are you taking any other medications?
P: I take vitamin D and multivitamin.
D: And do you have any allergies?
P: No.
D: Okay. And you. Do you live alone or do you live with other people?
P: Yeah, I live with my wife.
D: Okay. And since you've been feeling sick, have you been maintaining social distance, Maintaining some distance from her?
P: Yeah, yeah, we have. We have separate rooms that we've been able to distance for the last few days.
D: Okay, that's good. And do you. Have you traveled anywhere recently outside the province?
P: No travel.
D: Okay. And do you smoke or have you ever smoked?
P: No, I don't.
D: And marijuana?
P: No.
D: Any recreational drugs?
P: No.
D: Have you ever had or do you currently consume alcohol?
P: Yeah, I have a few beers on the weekend, but I've been trying to cut down after I was told I have pre diabetes.
D: Okay, that's really good. And. Okay, let's see. Do you have any family history of any heart problems or any lung issues or any cancers?
P: My grandfather had lung cancer. He smoked his whole life. And yeah, I know my dad had. He had a heart attack when he was in his 70s.
D: Okay. All right, well, those are all the questions I had for you. We will do a COVID test today simply because your symptoms overlap with some of the symptoms of COVID It's also possible that you just have a. Just the common cold, and that would get better over time. You might have caught something from your colleague who was sick last week. So it's great that you've been sort of isolating yourself and staying away from your wife. I would also recommend, if you haven't already done so, to not. I know that they shouldn't have said it yesterday evening, but just try to work from home or take some time off of work for the next couple of days, at least until your COVID test results are back in the next 24 to 48 hours, and then from there on, follow the advice that you'll be getting from public health.
P: That sounds really good. Yeah. Thank you.
