D: What brings you in?
P: Yeah, I've had a cough that's been bugging me for the last several months now. And more recently, I've noticed that I've started to bring up a bit more or a little bit of blood as well.
D: Okay, well, that's not good. So you said the cough started several months ago. How many months ago, do you think? Like, three, four, five?
P: Yeah, I would say. Yeah, maybe like. Like five or six. And it kind of started. It was really infrequent, and so it didn't really. Well, I thought it was just the usual smoking, but it's been getting worse over these last. Over this past six months.
D: Okay. And the blood in the cough, when did that start?
P: So that started about. About two weeks ago.
D: Two weeks ago. Okay. How much blood are you coughing up? Like, if. Like, is it the size of your palm? Is it more than that? Less than that.
P: I would say less than that. Like, each time there's maybe so at the size of. I don't know, like a loonie. So, like inside of the palm.
D: Okay, sure. And are you experiencing any shortness of breath along with your cough?
P: Yeah, now that you mention it, I have been. It's. You know, I thought that was just kind of me getting older and the smoking, but I certainly been able. I haven't been able to walk as far as. And even to the end of the driveway. Getting the mail now is pretty. I'll get short of breath before. I used to be able to walk a lot further than that just a couple years ago.
D: Yeah, for sure. Sorry, you said. You mentioned. You mentioned you had some wheezing as well, right?
P: I haven't really noticed any wheezing, no.
D: Okay. And have you had a fever recently?
P: No.
D: Weight loss?
P: Yeah, now that you mentioned it, maybe, maybe a little bit. Like five to ten pounds over the last month.
D: The last month. Okay. Any chills? Fever? Sorry? Chills or night sweats?
P: No, no, I haven't had anything like that.
D: Okay. Any rashes?
P: No.
D: Changes in your vision or hearing?
P: No.
D: How about a stuffy or runny nose?
P: No, I haven't had any symptoms like that.
D: Okay. And then changing your smell or taste?
P: No, that's been normal.
D: Okay. And how about chest pain?
P: No, I haven't had any chest pain.
D: Okay. Do you ever feel like your heart's racing?
P: No, I haven't had anything like that.
D: Okay. How about calf pain when you walk, like more than a block or two?
P: No, I haven't had any symptoms like that.
D: Okay. Any changes to your bowel movements?
P: No. Things have been normal there.
D: Okay. Any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Changes to your urine?
P: No.
D: No headaches?
P: Every once in a while I get a headache, but they're pretty mild. Usually I'll take an Advil. And they go away?
D: Sure. How about dizziness or fainting spells?
P: No, I haven't had anything like that.
D: Okay. Any confusion or memory loss?
P: Well, I guess I forget things a little more easily now, but that's just part of getting older.
D: Okay, sure. And then other questions that I have for you are, are you otherwise healthy? Do you have any major medical. Medical conditions?
P: I have arthritis in my knees and hands, so I have a lot of pain from that sometimes and also have high blood pressure and GERD or acid reflux.
D: Yeah, sure. Do you take any medications for these things?
P: Yeah, I'll take Tylenol for the arthritis and sometimes use some, like, topical creams for my knees. And I take amlodipine as well, I think, for the blood pressure.
D: Okay. Okay. And are you up to date with all your immunizations?
P: Yeah, I am. I remember getting one not too long ago, actually. Well, seven years ago, I guess now. But I didn't realize that I had to get anymore, so.
D: Yeah, after you turn 65, they should have given you the Shingrex for shingles and the pneumococcal vaccine. Does that sound familiar?
P: Yeah, it does. Yeah. I just didn't know about them until that time.
D: Okay. Yeah, sure. Any allergies that you have?
P: I don't think so, no.
D: How about family history of lung or heart conditions?
P: My grandfather had lung cancer and he was in his 70s when he. When he passed away. I remember.
D: Okay. Okay. And do you currently smoke?
P: I do, yes. Yeah, I smoke. I don't know, maybe a half a pack a day now, which is. It's a lot less than I used to. I was smoking two packs a day at one point.
D: Okay, well, congratulations on cutting down. Yeah, if you need help cutting that down even more, let us know. We have resources that you may be able to use.
P: Yeah, absolutely. Thank you.
D: Yeah, no problem. Do you do any other recreational drugs like marijuana, cocaine, heroin, anything like that?
P: Use some CBD drops at night. I find that helps with sleep and the pain in my knees.
D: Okay. Are those prescribed drops?
P: Well, I do buy. I get them from, like, the OCS store, I think they're called.
D: Okay. Yep. Okay. That's good that you're getting them from, like, an official store.
P: Yeah, there were. My friend said that they worked for her, and so I just gave them a try, and I found that they've helped.
D: Okay, good. And where do you live right now? And who do you live with?
P: Yeah, so I live in an apartment with my husband.
D: Okay. Any, like, old carpets, dust, mold, or asbestos in this apartment?
P: No, I don't believe so. It's relatively new. We just moved out of our house just to make it a little easier on us.
D: Mm. Okay. Yeah, for sure. Have you been in contact with anyone sick recently?
P: No, I don't think so. Been spending a lot of time at home with my husband, and he's been okay.
D: Okay, good. How about travel?
P: Nope. We've been pretty scared with COVID and all of that, so we've been staying home for the most part.
D: Okay. Okay, good. Those were all the questions that I had for you today. Did you have any questions of your own for me?
P: No. I was just really concerned when I started to see the blood coming up more recently, and so I was just hoping to get this figured out.
D: Yeah, for sure. So there are a couple of things we're gonna work you up for, because some of your symptoms overlap with COVID Will start by getting a Covid swab, and you should hear back in about 24 to 48 hours. We will also do a chest X ray to look for any signs of lung cancer. And then if we see consolidation or anything that would indicate, like, a mass in your lungs, we will discuss options for, like, biopsies, which is the gold standard for diagnosing lung cancers. Also, I know you haven't had any recent travel or anything like that, and your symptoms have been going on for a long time, but it may also be worthwhile to also check for things like tb, which could also cause you to cough up blood. So we'll start from there, and then if those come back negative, then we'll work you up further for other things that you may have but are, like, more rare. How does that sound?
P: That sounds like a good plan. Thank you.
D: Okay, great. No problem.
