D: How may I help you?
P: Hi, Chris. So, yeah, I just came to the hospital because I've just been feeling over the last few days, just I can't really take, like, a deep breath. And then I've also been coughing up this greenish yellowish material.
D: Okay, and when did this cough start?
P: So, sorry, I think the cough started, like, four days ago, and then the shortness of breath started just yesterday.
D: Okay. And it's been yellowish green. Were you coughing up sputum prior to this or did you have a cough before this?
P: No, not really.
D: Okay, and have you noticed any blood?
P: No, no blood.
D: All right, and the shortness of breath, are you experiencing this at rest or with exertion?
P: No, like, at rest. Even right now, I'm having trouble taking deep breaths.
D: Okay. Are you feeling any chest pain?
P: Not pain, but there's definitely some straining and discomfort when I take a deep bre.
D: Okay. Is the discomfort worse when you take a deep breath? Yeah, it's just like.
P: I just have to strain a lot to, like, take that deep breath.
D: Okay, and have you noticed any wheezing?
P: No wheezing.
D: Okay, and have you had any shortness of breath or do you have any shortness of breath? Have you lie flat?
P: No, not really. Not that I've noticed.
D: Okay. Or have you had any times where you've woken up from sleep because you were short of breath and you had to sit up?
P: No.
D: All right, and have you had any fevers or chills?
P: I have had a fever. Like today I had a fever. I measured. It was like 38.5 yesterday. I felt like I had chills and a fever as well.
D: Okay. Yeah, certainly sounds like a fever. And have you had any night sweats?
P: Last night? I would say I had night sweats. My sheets were a bit drenched.
D: Okay, and have you had a sore throat?
P: No.
D: Or a change of. Or loss of smell, loss of taste?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Have you had a runny nose or felt congested?
P: No.
D: Okay, how about any eye symptoms like redness or itchiness, pain?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay, and have you had any instances of fainting or feeling dizzy?
P: No.
D: Any abdominal pain?
P: No.
D: Any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Any diarrhea?
P: Nope.
D: Okay. Any rashes?
P: No Rashes.
D: And then any muscle aches or body pains?
P: No, not that I know of.
D: Okay. And how is your energy been? Have you had any fatigue or malaise the last several days?
P: Yeah, I would say so. Just feel like. I don't know if it's to do with the short of being short of breath, but, yeah, I Just feel like I've just been needing more rest.
D: Okay. And have you had any headaches?
P: No. No.
D: All right, so, yeah, you've had this cough, and you've been bringing up more sputum and shortness of breath, and you've had a fever as well. But experiencing any other symptoms?
P: No, I think those are pretty much all the symptoms.
D: Okay. And in the past, have you been diagnosed with any medical conditions before?
P: I do have. I take medications for high blood pressure. Then I take medications for high cholesterol as well.
D: Okay. Do you take any other medications?
P: Just vitamin D, calcium, multivitamins.
D: All right. Any allergies to medications?
P: Not that I know of. All right.
D: Any prior surgeries or hospitalizations?
P: Yeah, I've had a few. So I had a C section in my 20s. Then I had just, say, five years ago, I had my gallbladder removed.
D: Okay.
P: And.
D: Can you tell me a little bit about your living situation, like who you're living with and whereabouts?
P: Yes, I'm living alone right now, just in an apartment.
D: Okay. Have you been around anybody who's been sick?
P: No, not anyone that I know of. I do. I did see my. Just grandkids just last week, though.
D: Okay, and did they have it running?
P: Not that I noticed, no.
D: Okay. Have you traveled anywhere recently?
P: No, I've been at home.
D: Okay. And do you smoke cigarettes?
P: No. I probably smoked for a very short time for, like, probably five years of my life in my 20s.
D: Okay. Do you smoke marijuana?
P: No. Okay.
D: And you use any recreational drugs?
P: No.
D: Okay. And any family history of heart or lung conditions?
P: I do have. My father passed away from a heart attack in his 50s. My brother has high blood pressure, diabetes, and on my mom's side, she had, like, osteoarthritis.
D: Okay. And any cancer that is in the family?
P: Skin cancer on my father's side.
D: Okay. And have you had antibiotics recently, like, or within the last six months for any reason?
P: No, no antibiotics.
D: Okay. So that was everything that I wanted to ask today on history. Was there anything that you also wanted to mention I maybe forgot?
P: No, I think that's all.
D: Okay. So, yeah, with the symptoms, it could be a pneumonia, which could be bacterial or viral, as well as the possibility of something like Covid, which is, of course, a concern for today. So we will go ahead and start those investigations and get a swab, and you may need antibiotics for this if there is a pneumonia. So we'll also get a chest X ray as well.
P: Okay. All right, sounds good.
