D: So here you've been having some nausea, vomiting, diarrhea. Can you tell me a little more about that?
P: Yeah, so like around three or four days ago, I started to get really nauseous. And since then I've been vomiting every few hours and really, I don't know, just yesterday started to have some diarrhea as well.
D: Okay, so that's three or four days ago for the nausea and vomiting, is that correct?
P: Yeah, yeah, the nausea start kind of started three or four days ago and then after that the vomiting came. So yeah, maybe the vomiting was more like two days ago that started and then diarrhea kind of the last day.
D: Okay. Okay. Okay. And before that you were feeling. Well.
P: Yeah, I was feeling maybe a lot like a little tired for a day or two before, but I don't know, sometimes it can just feel like that. So I didn't really think much of it, but sure.
D: Okay. And since it started have. I know these all kind of started at different times, but have your symptoms gotten worse over time?
P: Yeah, they. They've gotten worse. At first they were kind of really spread like far enough apart that I would have thought it was just gonna go away on its own and then hasn't so has me concerned.
D: Okay, I'm just gonna ask you a few more questions about the vomiting. Have you noticed any blood in your vomit?
P: No, it's been kind of yellowish.
D: Okay. And have you noticed like a really bright kind of yellow green substance in your vomit?
P: Not really bright, but I don't know, maybe more like dark green? Yeah, nothing bright.
D: Okay. And you said now it's happening every couple hours for you?
P: Yeah, every few hours. It's been. It seems to be what I'm like, like after eating it. It's just making me, making me nauseous.
D: Okay. Okay. So have you been able to eat anything? When's the last time you actually had something to eat?
P: Yesterday I did. I had some soup and was able to. To keep most of it down, but. But it's been mostly liquids I've been drinking.
D: Okay. Okay.
P: My appetite really hasn't been there.
D: Okay. In terms of diarrhea, so that started a couple days ago. Have you only had diarrhea since then or have you had like any form stools?
P: No, well, it started more like yesterday and it's really only been diarrhea since, so. Yeah, like twice last night and then like three to three times this morning.
D: Okay. Have you ever had anything like this before?
P: No, I haven't been sick like this before.
D: Okay. Have you traveled anywhere recently?
P: Just got back from a trip in the US I was there for work.
D: Okay. And how did you travel there?
P: I traveled by train.
D: Okay. And how long were you there for? And when did you get back?
P: I was there for one night and got back five days ago.
D: Okay. Okay. Five days ago. And when you were there, were you in contact with anyone?
P: Well, I stayed at a hotel, so I guess the people that. Yeah, the people that were staying at the hotel.
D: Okay. Have you been in contact with anyone since coming back that's been sick?
P: No, I. I haven't been in contact with anybody. Anybody who's been sick.
D: Okay. In addition to the symptoms that you're describing to me, have you had any fevers?
P: I started to feel hot this morning.
D: Okay. Have you had any chills?
P: Nothing like that.
D: Okay. Any shakes?
P: No.
D: Okay. Night sweats?
P: No night sweats.
D: Okay. Have you had any cough?
P: No, I haven't really had a cough. My throat smells a little, like, scratchy, though.
D: Okay. Scratchy throat. Okay. Have you had any sore throat?
P: No, I wouldn't really say it's sore, but yeah, I mean, we just kind of like. Like itchy.
D: Okay. Okay. Have you noticed any changes to your sense of smell or taste?
P: No, I haven't noticed any changes to those.
D: Okay. Hmm. And do you live alone or with family?
P: I live with family. Yeah. I live with my wife and two children.
D: Okay. How are they feeling right now?
P: They've been feeling fine.
D: Okay. Okay. So just in terms of your general health, are there any conditions that you see your family doctor for regularly?
P: I have anxiety and back pain, so I do get some hydromorphone for that.
D: Okay. Okay.
P: For the back pain, anyway.
D: Okay. And what medications do you take besides the hydromorphone?
P: Acetylipram.
D: Okay.
P: And we've been working on decreasing the hydromorphone now over the last year, so it's a work in progress, though.
D: Okay. Okay. And have you ever had any surgeries?
P: Yeah, on my back. I was in an accident a few years back, so that's where the pain is from.
D: Okay. Sad to hear that. Do you have any allergies?
P: Yeah, it's a penicillin. I had hives when I was a kid.
D: Okay. Okay, let me see. So in terms of your family history, do you have any family history of your digestive system problems or respiratory problems?
P: No one in my family has had any problems with their stomach or. I haven't heard of any, like, colon cancer. I mean, my dad had a heart attack when he was in his late 60s, but that's kind of the only thing that I can think happened in my family in terms of health.
D: And it sounds like you live at home with your family. What do you do for work?
P: Yeah, I work for a tech company, so I was going down to meet a potential buyer for one of our products.
D: Okay. Okay. And just in terms of your lifestyle, do you drink alcohol?
P: Yeah, I'll have wine. Maybe one or two glasses on the weekend.
D: Okay. Do you smoke? Cigarettes?
P: No, but I used to. I quit about seven years ago. Yeah, so I quit about seven years ago.
D: Okay. So do you use any other substances? Cannabis or.
P: We'll have a joint every once in a while if with friends, but it's been a while because of the pandemic. Haven't really been hanging out with anybody.
D: Sure. Okay. I think that's all the questions that I had for you today. So it sounds like there's probably some kind of infection going on. What it is exactly, it's hard to say. There are some cases of COVID 19 that are more like GI symptoms than. Than simply respiratory symptoms. So I think we should probably give you a Covid swab, and then we ask that you and everyone in your house self isolate for a few days until you've got a negative result and been a few days without symptoms.
P: Okay, that sounds good.
D: Okay. So, yeah, we'll get that started for you. And otherwise, really, we want to know if it's Covid just for infection control purposes, but I think that essentially you should be drinking lots of fluids and getting a lot of rest, and it's something that likely should go away on its own. I mean, if things start to become a lot worse and you get really dehydrated and you have fevers that you can't control with Tylenol, then please come back to the emergency department. But I think in general, it will just be kind of supportive treatments for what you're experiencing.
P: Okay, that sounds good. I'll get some Gatorade on the way home.
D: Perfect. Actually, don't go into the store. Have someone else get it for you.
P: Okay, Will do. Thank you.
D: Well, have a good day. Thanks for chatting with me.
P: Thank you.
