D: What can I do for you today?
P: Hi. Yeah, so I just brought my son to the er. We've noticed in the last two days he's been just making these grunting noises and just seems a little bit like just not himself, just more quiet, not really crying.
D: Okay, and when did you. You said last few days. When exactly did you first notice the. The cring. How long? Oh, sorry. Two days. Okay.
P: Yeah.
D: Okay. Two days ago, was it. When do you hear this sound? When your baby's trying to breathe?
P: Yeah, today I was trying to pay more attention. It seems like that, like, just really trying to breathe more. And also I like, he's like the chest I see moving a lot more.
D: Okay. And so you've been hearing this grunting sound, and he's been trying to breathe, and you see that his chest is moving more than usual and he's crying. Has he been sleeping well or. No?
P: Yeah, so last night it was really hard to get him to sleep. He did sleep, I would say, like, around, like, four hours last night, but it was really difficult.
D: And what about feeding? Does he take a formula or is he breastfed?
P: So he takes formula. And today, like, yesterday he was feeding. Today it's been really hard to get him to feed. Maybe he fed for like one or two times, but not much.
D: What happens when you try to feed him?
P: Kind of just after a while, just pushes it away? Not really. Yeah, not really. Too excited about feeding.
D: Okay, and what about diapers? How many wet diapers has he had over the past or yesterday and today?
P: Probably around the same. Like, usually has like five to six wet diapers and it's around the same.
D: Okay. Okay. And did you try anything? I know that he's six months old. Did you try feeding him anything new or anything different?
P: No, it's just been the bottle, foods.
D: Nothing new, right? No solid foods yet?
P: No.
D: Okay. And in terms of his activities, you mentioned that he's not as. He's not moving in as active as he usually is.
P: Yeah, not as active. And then today I also thought I felt that he was a bit warm, warmer than usual, but I didn't have a thermometer at home.
D: Okay. Have you noticed. Has he been drooling at all?
P: Drooling? No, I haven't noticed that.
D: What about coughing?
P: I haven't heard any. Any coughing? No.
D: No. Okay. Sorry. Is he. Is he able to sit up on his own?
P: Up against, like a sofa or chair? Not really on his own.
D: Has he ever been. Has he been left alone over the past two days at some point? Do you feel like he might have taken something in his mouth accidentally?
P: Not. I tried checking his mouth. Like, I was there with him, like, all. All the time.
D: Okay, how has his immunizations been so far? Has he. Has he received them?
P: Yeah, he's received all his immunizations up to date.
D: Did he have. Has he. Was he vaccinated anytime recently? Because sometimes you said he's warm. Sometimes just getting vaccinated can cause a reaction.
P: Yeah, no, he was vaccinated, like, I think more than two or three weeks ago.
D: Okay. All right. And you said no diarrhea or anything like that, right?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any. Is he. Does he have any nausea or. Not nausea, but is he vomiting? Is he bringing anything up?
P: No, not really. Like, he was just pushing away the bottle, but, like, he didn't bring anything up.
D: Okay. Has he been limp and lethargic?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: Okay, has you said that he hasn't had his formula much, but what about drinking? Like, has he had anything to drink? Any milk or anything like that, or.
P: No, No, I don't think so.
D: No. So he hasn't had much to eat or drink over the past or today? Yeah, he might be a little bit dehydrated.
P: Yeah.
D: Okay. Okay. Well. Okay, so that's all I wanted to know. In terms of his current status, I would obviously want to examine him very carefully and see what's going on. How has. How has he been, like, just going back, how was your pregnancy?
P: Pregnancy was okay. No complications. But he was premature by two weeks, so I think he was born at 35 and four days.
D: Okay. And were there any complications at that time, including complications related to the lung, something like respiratory distress syndrome?
P: Yeah. So when he was born, there was. They needed to do. I forgot what it was, but they told me that initially he wasn't breathing, but then right afterwards, after, like, within five minutes, he was fine.
D: Okay. Our scores were low. Okay. Was he kept in the hospital, in the NICU after being born?
P: Yeah, just because of that scare. They kept him for three more days, but, like, he was growing. Well, there were no more episodes of the breathing issue, so they let him go after.
D: Okay. Has. How has he been since then?
P: Over the past six months, since then he's been fine? No, we didn't have to go to the hospital or anything. And during our routine visits, he's been growing well, no issues.
D: Any issues with his development?
P: No, he's been pretty. Like he's been meeting his milestones according to, like, the family.
D: Good, good, good. Has he had any surgeries or any. No hospitalizations, you said. And no. No diagnoses. Right? He hasn't been diagnosed with any condition?
P: No.
D: All right. Can you tell me about allergies? Is he allergic to anything that you're aware of?
P: No, not that I know.
D: Is there. Can you tell me about his family history? Anything that you might have or his dad or anyone else in the family?
P: I know him. His dad and I are pretty healthy. No medical conditions?
D: Anything like cystic fibrosis in the family?
P: No, not that I know of.
D: Okay. All right. Well, we'll examine the child and look at his vitals, listen to his lungs, look inside his mouth. And this sounds serious. So we'll keep you updated and we'll let you know what needs to be done. He might need. Potentially need antibiotics. He might need potentially to be intubated. But we'll have all these discussions after the baby's been seen, and we'll draw some labs and go from there.
P: Okay, sounds good. Thank you.
