D: What brings you in today?
P: Hi. So I just came in today. I've kind of put it off for a bit, but I've been having this cough for the last five to six months, and it seems to be getting worse. And over the last month, I've also been becoming more short of breath, so I just wanted to come and check if I need to do anything.
D: Yeah, it's really good that you decided to come in. How bad is your shortness of breath?
P: So usually I would be able to walk a few blocks, no problem, but now I have to take a break and catch my breath, and even going up and down stairs has been tough.
D: Do you feel that? Do you feel that your difficulty with breathing is worse when you're exerting yourself?
P: Yeah, it's definitely worse, but I also just, like, normally, even when I'm resting, I feel like I have to take in, like, much deeper breaths.
D: Do you ever wake up in the middle of the night gasping for air?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Do you feel like you have to raise your head or have multiple pillows to sleep at night so you don't feel short of breath?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. And this cough that you've had for the past five or six months, do you see it's getting worse?
P: Yeah, it's both the shortness of breath and the cough are getting worse. And also just I've been having some. Even some discomfort and pain when taking those deep breaths now, too, so. And that's been happening for probably the last couple weeks.
D: I see. Is it dry cough that you have, or do you bring up any gunk or any mucus?
P: It's mainly just like a dry cough.
D: Have you ever coughed up any blood or anything like that?
P: No, I haven't. I don't think I've seen any blood.
D: Okay. Do you have any other symptoms? Do you have any fevers or chills?
P: Not fevers, but I have been getting night sweats for the last couple weeks to maybe even a month. Once or twice a week, I just wake up completely drenched.
D: Have you had any unintentional weight loss?
P: Yeah, now that you mentioned it, I've probably lost 15 pounds in the last two months.
D: Okay. Have you had any muscle aches or joint pains all over your body? Do you feel achy?
P: Yeah, but I've probably felt like that for the last five years. I have this thing called osteoarthritis.
D: Mm. Okay.
P: I don't think that's anything new.
D: Have you had any changes in your bowel movements or any urinary symptoms?
P: No.
D: Any abdominal pain?
P: No, not that I've noticed.
D: Okay. Any headaches?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Have you had any falls in the past or in the past couple of months or years?
P: No, not been lucky.
D: Good. Any confusion?
P: No.
D: Anytime that you've lost consciousness?
P: Not that I know of, no.
D: Okay. And any medical conditions that you've been diagnosed with?
P: So I have osteoarthritis, and then I also have this condition with my prostate, bph. And I also take medications for my blood pressure.
D: What medications do you take?
P: I take this medication called lisinopril.
D: Anything else?
P: I do take just pain medications like Advil.
D: Okay. Do you take anything to protect your stomach when you're taking the Advil? Any other medications?
P: Yeah, I was given this other medication for or to take with my Advil. Like, but it's only when I'm taking Advil, like, every day. And so I haven't really been taking that I probably took. The last time I took it was probably a month ago.
D: Okay. Okay, that's good. Are you taking anything for your bph?
P: Oh, yeah, sorry. So I'm taking this medication called Tamsulosin.
D: Mm. Okay. All right. Any allergies to medications or otherwise?
P: Not that I know of, no.
D: Okay. Any, I guess, social history? Who do you currently live with?
P: I live alone right now in my apartment, but I have pretty good support from my kids. They just live a few blocks away and come visit me.
D: That's really good. And do you. Are you able to take care of yourself or do you need help with things like finances and groceries and cleaning?
P: No, I'm fairly independent in those matters.
D: Okay. Do you require any assistance with walking, any gain or walker or wheelchair or anything like that?
P: No, not yet, no.
D: Okay, good. Good. Do you smoke at all or did you ever smoke in the past?
P: Yeah, I've been smoking for my whole life.
D: How long, how much and for how many years?
P: Probably for almost, I guess, 50 years or maybe even more. Maybe like 55 years. And I have been smoking. At one point, I even smoked up to like two. Two packs a day. But now, like, for the last at least 20, 30 years, it's been like one pack a day.
D: Have you ever been diagnosed with any lung conditions?
P: No.
D: Okay. Have you had any marijuana or any recreational drugs?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Alcohol?
P: Nope.
D: Okay. All right. You mentioned that the cost started five to six months ago. Have you had a cough before that?
P: Here and there. Like, maybe just when I wake up sometimes, but this is kind of more frequent, and I do feel just kind of this discomfort in my chest when I take these deep breaths as well. Yeah. So I don't really know what's going on.
D: Do you go to your family doctor for your health checkups?
P: I haven't been for a while, for the last few months. But, yeah, generally I do go to my family doctor.
D: You do? Okay. Have you been? Sometimes for people who have been smoking for a long time, they do these scans of the lungs. Have you been getting those?
P: No, I don't remember the last time I had one.
D: Okay. All right. Okay. Those are all the questions I had for you. We'll do a physical exam and do your vitals and see if you do some labs and then go from there.
P: Okay. Sounds good.
D: You're welcome.
