D: What brings you in here today?
P: Yeah, hi. So over the past few months, I've noticed that I get short of breath sometimes, and my eyes are so irritated and they feel itchy and red. And I've also noticed this rash below my knees, so I just wanted to get everything checked out.
D: Okay, and when did this all kind of start?
P: It started a couple months ago, like two, three months ago.
D: Okay, and when did the shortness of breath start?
P: That's been on and off for the past two months as well.
D: Okay, and how about the rashes?
P: The rashes started like a month back, but it looks worse now. It started off small.
D: Okay, so for the cough, is it like a dry cough or a white cough?
P: It's a pretty dry cough.
D: Dry cough. Okay. Are you bringing up any green or yellow material or any blood at all?
P: No.
D: Okay, and this also started like a few months ago?
P: Yes.
D: And is it constant or does it come and go?
P: It's getting worse now, so it feels more constant now, but at first it just came and. Yeah, it came and went.
D: Okay, and has this happened to you before at all, all of these symptoms?
P: No.
D: Okay, so it started a few months ago. How about the rashes? Have they been there, like the ones below your knee since the two months, or do they come and go?
P: That's been there for the past month.
D: Okay, and can you describe the rash? A little bit. What does it look like?
P: Sure. So it's now pretty diffuse. It's just below my knees, like on my shins. It's on both sides. The one on my right side is a little bit bigger. It's about, say, maybe like 10 centimeters in diameter. It's red or like a dark pink. There's nothing coming out of it.
D: Okay, Is it painful or itchy at all?
P: It's painful. Yeah, it's painful.
D: Okay, what kind of pain do you feel when you press on it?
P: It's not that. Okay, so it's not painful, painful. It's tender. So if I touch it, it will feel tender.
D: Okay. Have you tried anything that has helped you relieve these symptoms?
P: I took some ibuprofen. That helped a little bit.
D: Okay. Okay. And so you've had the cough, but have you been having any kind of shortness of breath?
P: No. Well, actually. Sorry. Sorry. I have had a shortness of breath. I haven't had a cough.
D: Okay, so no cough, but you've been having shortness of breath. And in your shortness of breath, is it more so that you're not able to take deep breaths? Are you taking shallow Breaths. How would you describe.
P: Just feels like. Yeah, I can't take in a fully deep breath.
D: I see. And are you having any other symptoms like fevers or chills?
P: No.
D: Okay. And how about the eye irritation? When did that start?
P: That started a month ago as well.
D: Okay. And do you have any red eyes or can you. Any changes in your vision at all?
P: Yeah, my eyes do look a little bit red, and I don't know if my vision has changed a lot, but sometimes things will look a little bit blurry when they're far away.
D: Okay. And with the shortness of breath, is it brought on by exertion or can it be at rest as well?
P: It can be at rest as well.
D: Okay. Do you have any other symptoms, like any joint pains?
P: No, no joint pains.
D: Okay. Any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any headaches? No. Any muscle pain?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any recent travel or contact with someone who has been sick?
P: No.
D: Do you see any or do you notice any fluid coming out from your eyes or anything like that?
P: No, I didn't notice that.
D: Okay. Do you get any night sweats?
P: No.
D: And any chest pain?
P: Sometimes the shortness of breath.
D: Okay. Is it just like a discomfort or is it a pressure or stabbing pain?
P: It just feels like a discomfort.
D: Okay. Do you feel your heart is racing?
P: No.
D: Okay. And any changes in your bowel movements at all?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Any changes in your urinary pattern?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any sore throat, runny nose, any cold, like, symptoms?
P: No, but I have been feeling a little bit hot, so I wonder if I have a fever. I haven't checked it.
D: Okay, we can check. Have you had any recent weight changes?
P: Oh, now that you mention it, I have had some weight loss over the past six months. I've lost about 15 pounds.
D: 15 pounds. Okay. How about your appetite? Have you been eating well?
P: Yeah, I've been eating the same.
D: Okay. Okay. And have you had any exposure to any fumes, dust, animals or pets in your environment?
P: No.
D: Have you been diagnosed with any medical conditions in the past?
P: No.
D: Do you take any medications?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any allergies?
P: No allergies.
D: Any hospitalizations or previous surgeries?
P: I had a C section for my second child.
D: Okay. Any complications with that?
P: No, it was pretty standard. I didn't have any excessive blood loss or anything like that.
D: Okay. Any family history of any medical conditions, like any lung or heart conditions?
P: No lung or heart conditions. There are some autoimmune conditions in my family, though.
D: Okay, and what kind of autoimmune conditions are there?
P: There's rheumatoid Arthritis. There is lupus and, like, type 1 diabetes.
D: Okay. Okay. And are they for any, like, direct relatives, like your parents or children?
P: My parents.
D: Okay. Okay. And currently, right now, do you work?
P: I work from home. Yeah. I teach online.
D: Okay. And how's your living situation, like, right now?
P: Pretty good. We live in a house. I live with my husband and two children.
D: Okay. And do you currently smoke?
P: No.
D: Okay. And any recreational drug use, like marijuana? No. Okay. And any alcohol?
P: I drink once in a while. Like, I'll have a glass of wine on Fridays.
D: Okay. All right. Yeah. So those are all the questions I had. Do you have any questions for me?
P: No. Like, what? What do you think I have and how should I treat it?
D: Yeah. So definitely one thing we need to rule out with the shortness of breath is any viral or viral infection, like coronavirus. So we'll get a test done for you today. However, since this seems to be kind of a chronic issue that's been going on for a few months, and you're having with the shortness of breath, some other symptoms. The rash below the knees is what we call erythema nodosum, and the irritation in your eyes. And you have a family history of autoimmune conditions as well. So sometimes you can get an autoimmune disease that affects the lungs. So we need to rule out something like sarcoidosis, which can cause fibrosis in your lungs and cause shortness of breath. So just to work that up, we'll get a chest X ray and also do some inflammatory marker tests like crp, esr, and some other rheumatological tests as well. And based on what comes back, we may have to refer you to a rheumatologist for further management and treatment. Yeah. So let's just do some of those tests first, and then we'll go from there. Do you have any questions?
P: No, that sounds great. Thank you so much.
D: You're welcome. And you may need, depending on what we find, steroid treatment today, until you see the rheumatologist.
P: Okay.
D: All right, well, take care.
P: You too.
