D: I was wondering if you could tell me what brought you in.
P: Sure. I've been coughing for the past three days and I can't seem to stop. It's affecting my sleep, so I just really like to get this fixed.
D: Okay. With the cough, have you been bringing up any sputum?
P: No, it's dry. It's very dry.
D: Okay. Have you brought up any blood?
P: No, no blood.
D: Okay. And the cough started three days ago. Has it gotten worse? Gotten better, Stayed the same?
P: You know, it seems to be getting worse, and now I even feel hot, like I have a fever or something.
D: I see. Are there any triggers associated with the cough, like going outside into the cold, smoke inhalation or dust or pets?
P: No, not that I noticed.
D: Okay. Have you tried anything to help with the cough?
P: I tried over the counter cough syrup, but it's not helping.
D: Okay. And you mentioned the cough's interrupting your sleep. Is the cough constant all day or are there particular times of the day that it's worse?
P: It's just all day.
D: Let's see. Okay. And you mentioned that you started to feel hot. When did you notice that?
P: That was just today.
D: Just today. Have you taken your temperature?
P: No, I haven't.
D: Okay. And have you been experiencing any other symptoms?
P: I've been tired, but I don't know if that's because I can't get any. Seem to get any sleep.
D: Oh, because the cough's been keeping you up. Okay.
P: Right.
D: So have you had any headaches?
P: Maybe a slight headache, but also I'm not too sure if that's because I've been coughing and it's putting strain on my head.
D: Okay, how about any discharge, like mucus or tears from your eyes or ears?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay, how about any pain around your eyes or ears?
P: No.
D: Okay. Have you had a runny nose?
P: No. No.
D: All right. And within the last month or so, have you had any cold like symptoms with a runny nose, headache, sore throat or a cough?
P: No.
D: Okay, so it's just been these last few days?
P: Yes.
D: All right. And do you have a sore throat now?
P: No.
D: Okay. And how has your appetite been?
P: My appetite's been okay. Also. It's just hard to eat because I'm coughing so much.
D: Okay. Have you had any troubles with swallowing, like being painful?
P: No. Well, no. No, I would say no.
D: Okay. And in the last several months, have you had any weight loss?
P: No weight loss.
D: All right. And have you had any chills?
P: Maybe a little bit last night, now that I think about it.
D: Okay. And how about any night. Sweatshirt?
P: A little Bit last night.
D: Okay, so you were a bit chilly and sweaty last night?
P: Yes, a little bit.
D: Okay. And feeling hot today. Have you had any chest pain?
P: No. Chest pain? No.
D: Alright, and how about shortness of breath?
P: No.
D: All right, Any wheezing?
P: No.
D: All right, and have you had any instances where you felt as though your heart was racing or beating out of your chest?
P: No.
D: All right, and any instances where you felt like you were going to faint or maybe blackout?
P: No.
D: Okay, and have you felt dizzy at all?
P: No. Dizziness?
D: Alright. And have you had any loss of your sense of taste or loss of your sense of smell?
P: No.
D: Okay. And have you had any diarrhea?
P: No diarrhea.
D: All right, and then how about any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Okay. And so you've been fatigued. Have you had any muscle aches or body aches?
P: A little bit of both, yeah.
D: I see. Okay, and have you had any painful urination or feeling the need to urinate frequently?
P: No.
D: Okay. And any skin rashes or skin changes?
P: No.
D: All right, in regards to your past health, have you been diagnosed with any medical conditions before?
P: I have hypothyroidism.
D: I see. Okay. Are you taking any medications for that?
P: I'm on Synthroid.
D: Okay, great. When was your last TSH checked?
P: I believe I did it six months ago.
D: Okay, and were there any concerns with the range at that time?
P: No, I think it was normal.
D: All right, excellent. Do you take any other medications or over the counter?
P: I take this multivitamin. I can't remember the name of it, but it's just something that I take every day.
D: Okay. Any allergies to medications?
P: No.
D: All right, and have you had any surgeries before?
P: I had my appendix removed when I was a teenager.
D: Okay. And any complications with that surgery?
P: No.
D: All right, so next, I was wondering if you could just tell me a little bit about your living situation.
P: Sure. I live with my husband and two children who are both teenagers. We live in a. In a townhouse and we moved recently.
D: Okay. And anybody in the home been sick?
P: My husband has been throwing up for the past two days and I think he was feeling a little hot too.
D: Okay. Has he been assessed by a physician?
P: No, I tried to bring him today, but he refused.
D: I see. Okay. And has he been around anybody who's been sick that you're aware of, like at work or anything?
P: He works at this IT company. There aren't a lot of them and they all have their own cubicles, so, you know, maybe in the lunch room or something, but other than that, I don't Think so.
D: Okay. And how about yourself? Any other exposures or sick contacts? Maybe at work or something like that?
P: So I do marketing stuff online, but I work from home.
D: Okay. And your kids have been well?
P: Oh, yeah, they've been healthy.
D: All right. And do you smoke cigarettes?
P: No.
D: And do you drink alcohol?
P: I'll have a glass of wine with dinner once in a while.
D: Okay, and what's once in a while?
P: Maybe every three or four days.
D: Okay, so a couple of drinks per week. All right. And do you smoke marijuana?
P: I have smoked marijuana. I don't regularly do it, no.
D: Okay. And do you use any other recreational drugs?
P: No.
D: Okay. And has anybody in the family had a lung condition or a heart condition before?
P: My sister, who's 15 years older than I am, she had a heart attack quite recently.
D: Oh, I'm sorry to hear that. Do you know what happened?
P: You know, I'm not too sure. She doesn't always eat the healthiest, and she doesn't do a lot of exercise, so I think maybe that had something to do with it.
D: Okay. And did your parents have any heart problems?
P: No, they were both healthy. They passed away a few years ago, but they died. Old age, I guess you can say.
D: Okay. Any cancers in the family?
P: No.
D: All right, so I think that's all I wanted to cover on the history today. Was there anything that you wanted to tell me? I maybe didn't ask.
P: No. I was just curious if you think I had Covid.
D: Certainly one of the top things that I'm considering after hearing about your symptoms of having this cough and fever and being tired these last few days, especially with your husband being sick with vomiting and not feeling well. That being said, it could be another type of viral illness or possibly a bacterial infection. But certainly we'll order some investigations, some blood work, a pcr, nasal swab that will actually test for Covid, as well as a chest X ray to start with. And we will wait for some of those results to come back.
P: Okay. Yeah, that sounds good.
D: All right, so we'll get that started.
P: Okay, thank you.
