D: So what brings you in?
P: Okay, so I have been coughing a lot over the past week or so, and it's been pretty dry, but I've been coughing, like, almost non stop throughout the day, and I'm feeling very short of breath. And my bronchodilator helps, but I find I'm using it a lot now.
D: Okay, how long have you known that you have asthma for?
P: I was diagnosed when I was eight.
D: You're ten now.
P: Mm.
D: Okay.
P: That's right.
D: So you're using your bronchodilator more. This is the one that you use kind of as needed? Yeah. Okay. That's right. And then do you have one that you take every day no matter what?
P: No, I don't have that one.
D: So you just have the one that you take as needed? Do you take any other medications?
P: No, I don't take anything else.
D: Oh, okay. Just the one. It's a puffer.
P: Yes.
D: Okay.
P: Okay.
D: And you're using it more than normal. So how often were you normally using it?
P: I was only using it, like, I don't know, maybe once every two weeks or so. Not very often. But now I'm using it like, almost every day, like five, six times a week.
D: Okay, and are you. Does it usually turn out that you need it, like, during certain times, like, say when you're exercising or when it's cold?
P: I find I use it more both. Like when it's right after. I, like, run around after gym during recess. And. Yeah, the cold also makes it worse.
D: Okay, Any other triggers that you can think of?
P: No, no other triggers.
D: Normally get more in certain seasons.
P: I know. No big changes there. I find the cold air makes it worse. Like winter makes it worse. Or like. Yeah, maybe also the spring with, like, pollen and stuff like that.
D: Okay, so you have allergies too?
P: I think so. I haven't ever been, like, formally diagnosed.
D: Okay, I see, I see. Yeah, that would make sense, though. Okay, so you say you've had more coughing lately. Is that right? You say the last two weeks or the last week?
P: Last two weeks.
D: Last two weeks. Has your cough been a dry cough?
P: Yes.
D: Have you been kind of bringing up gunk? Okay, dry cough. Have you noticed any wheezing?
P: Yeah, I've been wheezing a lot, actually.
D: And that's. Do you use your bronchodilator every time that you're wheezing?
P: When it gets really bad? Like when I get so wheezy that I find it hard to breathe.
D: Okay, so you're getting wheezy even more times than you're Having to use your bronchodilator?
P: Yes, that's right.
D: Okay. Are you having any symptoms at nighttime?
P: Yeah, they don't happen as much as my daytime symptoms, but I been having it maybe like, every other day or, like, you know, every two days or so.
D: Okay. And when you have these. So when you have these episodes, you're coughing, you're wheezy, do you feel like you're having a hard time breathing?
P: Yeah, that's right.
D: Do you feel it gets tight in your chest?
P: Yes. Okay.
D: Have you had any colds lately or any infections?
P: No, nothing like that. Okay.
D: Does anyone that lives with you or anyone that you're around often, has anyone been sick?
P: No.
D: Okay. Could you have been in contact with anyone that's sick, even outside of your house? No. Okay. Have you traveled anywhere?
P: No.
D: Have you lost any of your sense of taste or smell?
P: No.
D: Have you had any fevers?
P: No.
D: Any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Any belly pain?
P: No.
D: We just asked those questions just because sometimes these things can happen with an infection or after an infection, and we just want to make sure that that's not, you know, what's happening right now. We probably will do a Covid swab just because of the times that we're living in right now. But I just want to ask you a few more questions before I go talk to the doctor. So do you have. Besides your asthma, do you have any health problems?
P: No. No.
D: And you said besides the bronchodilator, you're not taking any medications?
P: No.
D: And you think you might have allergies in the spring? Do you have allergies to anything else that you know of?
P: No, not that I know of.
D: Okay. Does anyone else in your family have asthma?
P: I think my sister has asthma, too.
D: Anyone in your family have any other breathing problems?
P: No.
D: Anyone else in the family have any allergies?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: Okay, Sounds good. And you live at home. Did you say you live with your parents and your sister?
P: Yep, that's right.
D: Are you currently going to school online or in person?
P: Both. We do half days.
D: Okay. How are you finding that?
P: It's been okay? It's different, but it's been working out okay so far.
D: Cool not to have to get out of your PJs some days?
P: Yes, that's true. Okay.
D: Do you guys have any pets in the home?
P: No pets. We have just, like. Well, I guess we have goldfish.
D: Okay. Those are cool pets. Does anyone in the house smoke?
P: No.
D: Okay. Okay. I think that's all my questions that I had for you. Today. What do you like to do for fun?
P: Oh, I like playing games online with my friends and before COVID we used to get together and have movie nights and play sports together.
D: That sounds really cool. Well, hopefully we can get this figured out for you so you don't have any. You don't have to use your medications every time you play sports because that's no fun. You should be able to enjoy that. So we're going to try to get this sorted out for you. I'm going to go talk to the doctor and tell him everything or her everything that you said and yeah, we'll come back and see you shortly. Hopefully maybe all you need is a little change to your medications and maybe we'll be better be able to better control your asthma.
P: Yeah, that sounds great. Thank you.
D: Okay, well, thanks for talking with me. We'll see you soon.
P: Okay, great. Thanks.
