D: I do for you.
P: Hi. I came in here today. I just was feeling just a bit short of breath over the last few days, and I've had. So I normally have a cough, but I've just been coughing a lot more over the last week. I don't know if it's. If it's something else. I do have a COPD diagnosis, which I was diagnosed with, like, a couple years ago, but this is. This seems to be much worse.
D: Okay, you said you were diagnosed with COPD a couple years ago. Was that two years ago, three years ago?
P: I think it was almost probably five years ago.
D: Five years ago. Okay. And have you always had this cough since then?
P: Yeah, I've probably had a cough for the last 10 years, I think.
D: Okay.
P: Yeah.
D: And you mentioned that this cough has gotten worse over the last week.
P: Yeah, I've been coughing a lot more. Even just walking down the stairs from my bedroom to even the kitchen. I just have to take a little bit of a breather and just start coughing.
D: Okay, and is it a dry cough or are you bringing up any phlegm?
P: No, I'm bringing up like this. It's usually before this week, it was like kind of a clear to yellow. Sorry, clear to white material. But this past week, it's been more yellow in color.
D: Okay. Any blood in there?
P: No, I haven't noticed any blood.
D: Okay. And you said you were also short of breath, and when did that start?
P: That's just been the last few days. But just to clarify, I do get short of breath here and there. Sometimes I have to use puffers, but the last few days I've just been really short of breath. Even if I walk a little bit, I have to sit down and can't really catch my breath.
D: Okay. All right. And do you get short of breath when you're laying down?
P: No, not really. It's mainly just when I'm moving around and doing stuff.
D: Okay, how about when you're asleep, does it wake you up and kind of make you gasp for air?
P: No.
D: No. Okay, so no orthopnea or pnd. All right. And the puffers that you're on, can you remind me which ones you're on again?
P: So I'm on this one called ventolin, which I've been using a lot more recently just for relief. And then I'm on this other puffer. I think it's called Spiriva.
D: Okay. How often. How many times this week have you had to use your Ventolin?
P: Ventolin I've probably used probably almost like 10 times this past Week.
D: Okay. All right. Any chest pain?
P: Just when I'm having, like, those coughing fits and with the breathing, I feel some discomfort, but that's it.
D: Okay. Okay. All right. And then any palpitations or feeling like your heart's racing?
P: No.
D: Okay. All right. Do you ever feel like your calves hurt after you walk a while?
P: No, not really.
D: No. Okay. Any dizziness or fainting spells?
P: No, no, not that I know of.
D: Numbness or tingling?
P: Nope.
D: Confusion or memory loss?
P: Nope.
D: Headaches?
P: No.
D: Changes in your bowel movements?
P: No.
D: Nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Changes in your appetite?
P: No, not really. Eating? About the same.
D: Okay. Changes in your urine?
P: No.
D: Runny nose or stuffy nose?
P: No, I haven't had that.
D: Okay. Sore throat?
P: No.
D: Changes in your vision or hearing?
P: No.
D: Changes in your smell or taste?
P: No, not really.
D: Okay. How about weight loss?
P: No, my weight's been pretty steady.
D: Okay. Chills?
P: Maybe a few times. This, like in that last couple days, I've been feeling a bit chilly, but I don't know if I have a fever or anything like that.
D: Okay, so you haven't actually measured your temperature, right?
P: No.
D: Okay, we can do that today. Any rashes?
P: No.
D: Fatigue?
P: No.
D: Okay. And besides the copd, do you have any other long standing medical conditions?
P: I have like, high cholesterol.
D: Okay.
P: And just I. I used to take blood pressure medications, but I don't right now.
D: Okay, what kind of blood pressure medications did you used to take and how come you stopped?
P: I was on, like, a diuretic, but then the doctor said my blood pressure was really well under control, so I just stopped taking it.
D: Okay. Okay. And the doctor was okay with that?
P: No, I just stopped taking it. I didn't really, like, ask the doctor.
D: Okay, well, we'll keep checking your blood pressure, and that's something you should keep an eye on as well, just in case you have complications with your kidneys. Does that sound okay?
P: Yeah.
D: Okay. And are you on any medications other than the puffers?
P: Just atorvastatin for your cholesterol.
D: Okay. And are you up to date with your immunizations?
P: Yep. I even. Vaccine.
D: Pardon me?
P: I even got the coronavirus vaccine.
D: Oh, okay, good. Congrats. Did you also get the shingles vaccine and the pneumococcal vaccine?
P: Yeah, I got.
D: Okay. Okay, good. Any allergies?
P: No, not that I know.
D: How about a family history of lung or heart conditions?
P: My father had lung cancer, but he smoked a lot. I also smoke, so I sometimes worry about that. But I had lung cancer and my mother, she was perfectly healthy. Yeah. So just my Father.
D: That's your father. Okay. How much do you smoke?
P: Probably half a pack a day. Used to be one pack, even two packs at one point in time, but right now it's half a pack a day.
D: Okay. All right. Well, it's good that you're cutting down and if you need more resources to help you do that, we have some available that we can refer you to. Do you take any other recreational drugs like cannabis, heroin, cocaine?
P: No, nothing like that?
D: No. Okay. And do you drink alcohol?
P: Just probably, maybe like a couple times a month.
D: Couple times a month. Okay. And are you currently married?
P: Yeah, I currently live with my wife.
D: Okay, and any reason for you to believe you have old carpets, mold, dust, asbestos, pets, anything that could be triggering your symptoms?
P: No, nothing like that. We live in like a fairly new apartment.
D: Okay. Okay, good. And have you been in contact with any sick people recently?
P: No, not. Not really. We've been just to ourselves.
D: Okay. And have you traveled anywhere recently?
P: No, just been in our house.
D: Okay. Alright. Well, those were all the questions that I had. Did you have any questions of your own?
P: Yeah, I was just wondering what this can be.
D: Yeah, you know, it sounds like you have cough and shortness of breath and both of these things you've had for a while, but now they're getting worse. And based on your past history of copd, I would say this sounds like a COPD exacerbation. So for that we, we will start off with some basic blood work, like CBC, electrolytes, your kidney function, ABGs, as well as like a chest X ray. And basically to treat it, we're going to take your oxygen saturation and give you some extra oxygen if you need it. We'll continue to use your bronchodilators and in addition to both of that, we'll also give you some steroids as well as antibiotics just to prevent any infections. Or if you already have it, then it can help with that as well. And because your symptoms somewhat overlap with those of COVID we'll also do a Covid swab just to make sure it's not that. And you should hear back about those results in 24 to 48 hours. How does that sound?
P: That sounds good. Thank you.
D: Okay. Yeah, no problem.
