D: What brings you in today?
P: Yeah, I've had shortness of breath, and even at rest, really feeling like it's difficult to breathe. And when I take a deep breath, I get a chest pain.
D: When did this start?
P: This started yesterday.
D: How bad is your shortness of breath?
P: Like, I don't know. I feel like I'm okay, like, in terms of being able to breathe, but, I mean, if I exert myself at all, there's no way I would be able to. I just feel like even at rest, it's hard to breathe.
D: Hmm. Okay. Has it gotten worse since yesterday or better or kind of been the same?
P: It's mostly been the. Been the same or actually, sorry, it's got. It got a little bit worse. At first it was more. More with exertion, and now it's at rest as well. So, yeah, it's got worse.
D: I see. Okay. Are you able to talk in full sentences or do you need to sort of take a deep, like, stop to take a breath?
P: I can talk in full sentences.
D: Okay. And the chest pain, does it only occur when you're taking a deep breath, or are there other times as well?
P: Pretty much, yeah. Only when I'm taking a deep breath. And, I mean, maybe that's why I've. But part of the. I can't take a deep breath, so it's making me feel. It's making the breathing more difficult, making me feel more short of breath.
D: Okay. Any other symptoms that you've had? A fever or a headache?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Any cough?
P: Yeah, I've had a cough as well over the same time period.
D: Is it a dry cough or are you bringing something up?
P: It's dry. Yeah. I haven't brought up any sputum or any blood.
D: Okay. Any other flu, like, symptoms? Runny nose, stuffy nose, sore throat, anything like that?
P: No, I've just had. Yeah, the shortness of breath and chest pain.
D: Okay. And have you. I guess, like, just more general questions about other potential symptoms. Do you feel like your heart is racing or do you feel like you have. Do you have any belly pain or any changes in your bowel movement?
P: No belly pain or changes to bowel movements, but I do feel like my heart is beating really fast. Really fast, though.
D: Yeah. Okay. You said that this started yesterday. Were you, like, completely fine the day before?
P: I was, yeah.
D: Anything that's happened recently that's different or new?
P: Well, it. Like, about two weeks ago, I had a hysterectomy because I. For abnormal bleeding. So, yeah, I had surgery two weeks ago.
D: What have you been doing these past two weeks in terms of sort of physical activity, have you been moving around or.
P: No, it's certainly been less. I've been moving a little bit, but I've had a lot of pain, so I just haven't been doing as much activity, that's for sure.
D: I see. And have you had any. I guess, any pain in your legs or swelling in your leg? One or the other?
P: Yeah, I have had, actually. Yeah. My right. My right calf is pretty sore.
D: Definitely have a look at that. Have you noticed that it's been bigger or more red or warm?
P: No, I haven't noticed anything like that. Just. Just really hurts.
D: Okay. Any medical conditions that you've been diagnosed with?
P: Yeah, and I have a high BMI, type 2 diabetes, and anxiety.
D: Do you have any bleeding disorders? Other.
P: Yeah, no, I think it said fibroids.
D: Okay. Okay. And do you take any medications?
P: Yeah, so insulin, metformin, and that's it.
D: Okay.
P: Oh, sorry. And then an ssri, like a cetilopram. Anxiety.
D: All right. And do you have any allergies?
P: No, I don't.
D: And who. Do you. Do you. Do you currently live alone?
P: No, I live with my husband and our two sons.
D: Okay. And do you have anyone sort of come in to help you out over these past two weeks? Are you getting any outside help from nurses, etc. Or are your family members being supportive and helpful?
P: Yeah, it's been mostly the family members. My husband's been working from home, and the kids have been helpful as well. They're 10 and 12, so they're able to do some things on their own. So, yeah, they've been supportive.
D: That's great. That's great. Okay. And do you smoke at all?
P: I do, yes. I smoke about a half a pack per day.
D: For how long?
P: Yeah, I mean, I started in my. Yeah, after the kids were born, actually, so, like 10 years ago.
D: Okay. Have you tried cutting it down at all?
P: Yeah, I have. I've kind of gone through spurts of quitting and restarting, quitting and restarting. So, yeah, I've tried before.
D: Okay. And what about marijuana or recreational drugs?
P: No, don't use anything like that.
D: And alcohol?
P: Yeah, I'll have some wine on the weekends, but maybe that's like a glass or two.
D: Okay. Okay. And do you have any medical conditions that run in the family?
P: Just. Yeah, my father actually had a stroke when he was 68, and that's it.
D: Okay. Okay. You haven't ever had one, have you?
P: No, I. I haven't had anything like that.
D: Okay. All Right. So I guess. So in terms of smoking, you said that you've tried to quit a couple of times in the past. Do you intend on trying again? I know it can be very hard to quit smoking.
P: Yeah, it's certainly something that is always kind of on the back of my mind.
D: Okay. If there's. I'm happy to assist you and share resources and problems like medications and things like that that could help you, if you're interested. So we can talk more about that. Talking about your. I guess you mentioned that your. Your wheat is a little bit higher than or is outside the normal range. Is that something that you would like to cut down?
P: Yeah, we do try to eat more vegetables, and I've been trying to do that sort of thing. I've lost a few pounds, but not enough. Definitely want to keep going.
D: Okay, good. As long as you feel that you. What you're currently doing is helping you and it's helping you reduce weight, that's great. But also I'm here for you if you need more education or guidance on that. So given what you've told me so far, it sounds like you might have developed a clot in your leg somewhere simply because you had a surgery and you were not moving around very much. Sometimes that causes the blood to kind of not move around your body as much as it usually does and kind of stays in one place and gets turned into a clot. And that clot can sometimes get dislodged and settle into your lungs, and that can make it difficult for you to breathe. So we'll do some tests. That's what my understanding is, given what you've told me so far, that we do have to confirm it using a test. Also, the fact that you smoke and your rate and your BMI is high increases your risk of developing a clot. So I would definitely strongly recommend that you continue to try to reduce both and try to quit smoking. And so we'll do an ultrasound of your leg and we'll do a scan of your chest and see what's going on and then decide if we need to give you any medications, like any blood thinning medications.
P: Okay. Yeah, that sounds really good. Thank you.
D: Welcome.
