D: Yeah. So you're a 26 year old, generally healthy and with. Sorry. Back pain.
P: Chest pain.
D: Chest pain. Okay. When did the chest pain start?
P: So I. I guess I. I don't know if I'd really call it pain. It's. It's been just very uncomfortable. Like it just felt a little odd for like a week and a half. It's kind of. Yeah, it's kind of like a very sharp, strong pain when I take a deep breath. But I don't notice it all the time. It's just. It's often when I'm sitting and studying or when I'm walking, when I'm walking to school.
D: Okay. Did you have any accidents or injuries around that time?
P: No, nothing that I can think of.
D: Okay. Did it come on suddenly or is it more gradual?
P: Yeah, it's. No, it's. It's pretty, it's pretty. Well, it seems the same each time. It's kind of last like 20 minutes or so. And I've tried Tylenol and I've tried Advil and I've even tried like, like an Alka Seltzer and it hasn't really helped very much.
D: Okay. So it's pretty cons. It's not consistent throughout the day. It only happens at certain times of the day.
P: Yeah, it'll come on for like 20 minutes, like here and there.
D: Okay. Anything that you think triggers it?
P: I don't. I don't really know. I was kind of worried. I was kind of worried that it could be a heart thing. I feel like it might, it might be. It could be stress, but I'm not really sure. And my dad had a heart attack last year. He was pretty young, he's like in his 50s. And it just kind of scares me because now he's having these heart problems.
D: Okay, so these chest pains last for about 20 minutes. It only happens when you take a deep breath in. And after the 20 minutes, do they come and go? Is it something that gradually weans off or is it fairly sharp?
P: It seems like it kind of goes away once I. Once I'm at school and like talking to people and doing other things. It's kind of when I'm. I notice it when I'm on my walks, when I'm alone or like when I'm studying alone. More like maybe I have it when I'm talking to other people, but I don't really notice it.
D: Okay. Does it get worse with exercise?
P: I don't think so. It just kind of like when I'm walking to school, it kind of Stays the same. I haven't done any strenuous exercise lately because I've just had so much schoolwork piling up.
D: So you mainly get it at. So you can get it at rest, I should say.
P: Exactly, yeah. Like, when I'm studying.
D: Okay. Any fevers, sick at all last little while?
P: No. No, I don't think so.
D: No. You've been feeling well otherwise?
P: Yeah. I mean, besides just kind of feeling stressed. I. Like, I've been trying to quit smoking, and that's been. That's been kind of hard. And school's just very, very busy right now.
D: When did you stop smoking?
P: So, like, I guess I'm trying to quit. I'm smoking less than I used to. I probably smoke five cigarettes a day, but it used to be a little bit more.
D: Okay. Coming back to the stress, is there anything recently that's causing you more worries?
P: It's just that I'm doing my Masters of Social work and I'm getting towards the end, and it's just. It's very scary because I'm working on, like, final thesis and there's just a lot involved, and it's. It's just making me very nervous.
D: Okay. Is there anything special about the last couple of weeks? It's maybe more stressed than previously.
P: I think just the time crunch of having to finish this. I've never felt like, so. Like there was so little time to do the work that I need to do.
D: Got it. Have you ever felt this pain before, anytime in your life?
P: No, not before this.
D: Okay, so it comes on several times a day, not necessarily triggered by anything. And you said you smoke. When did you start smoking?
P: Like, when I was probably 18. I sometimes smoked a little, and then I smoked a little more. Maybe like 10 cigarettes a day for, like, the last two years. But then a few months ago, I've been cutting it in half.
D: Okay, now, when you get this chest pain, do you ever feel short of breath?
P: I. I think I. I make myself nervous with it, and then I kind of start breathing faster. But I don't have a hard. I don't have a hard time breathing otherwise. And it's hard to get a deep breath because I'm. It makes me really nervous.
D: Does your heart ever flutter? Feel like it's skipping a beat?
P: No, only if I. Only if I. Like, if I. If I'm having kind of an anxiety attack that felt like that before, but not any other time.
D: Okay. Don't get any chest pain. All right. And just in terms of other things. So anything else you've seen the doctor for. In the past, you mentioned anxiety attacks.
P: Yeah, like, I talked to my family doctor about that when I was a teenager, but I really haven't, you know, seen my doctor for it anytime in the last, like, eight years or so.
D: Anything else?
P: Oh, sorry, no, nothing else. I just. I thought I was kind of. When I was in high school, I had those, and then I really haven't for a long time, but lately I felt like this. Like I could maybe get them again.
D: So you've never had asthma as a child?
P: No.
D: And you don't have asthma now?
P: No.
D: Okay. Do you take any medications right now?
P: No. Like, I take, like, a multivitamin, but that's it.
D: Okay. And you live in London.
P: Do it like, for school.
D: Got it. You live during your master's of social work? Have anyone been around you been sick at all last little while?
P: No. Like, I live alone. I haven't really seen very many people lately.
D: Okay. And how do you manage stress when you do get it?
P: I try to. I try to, like, set some time aside just to read books that, like, I like to read instead of, like, school books at nighttime. And I do really enjoy running. It's. I've been a little bit nervous to do it lately, but usually I run like, a few times a week.
D: Okay. And when you're pretty preoccupied, do you ever get the chest pain?
P: Like, what I'm really. When I'm work, like, working with classmates or, like, thinking, really, like, if I'm talking to someone else, I don't really get it. Or if I have. If I'm, like, working on a task with my hands, but it's when I'm walking and I. I'm alone, kind of with my thoughts or when I'm studying, that's when I. When I get it.
D: Understood. And you said your father passed early from a heart attack. I'm sorry, but anyone else in your family, either your parents or mom, have any health issues?
P: He's alive. Like, he had a heart attack. He's just. Now he has to see a lot of heart doctors. No, there's nothing else in my family like that. I don't really know, like, about my grandpa, like, my dad's dad. But, like, he might have also. He just kind of. He just passed away young from, like, an accident. So. Yeah, I'm not really sure.
D: Got it. So no one has died suddenly with no explanation when they were young or while they were swimming?
P: No.
D: No one's ever talked about arrhythmias or. Is that word familiar to you?
P: No, no, just my dad and his heart attack. That's, like, the only thing I know of.
D: Okay, sounds good. I think I've got all the information I need, and I'll pass it on to the doctor, who'll take a look at you. Okay? Have a good.
P: Okay. Thank you.
