D: Would you mind starting with telling me what could help you today?
P: Yeah, I haven't been feeling very well over the past two days. I have had this cough. I'm feeling very short of breath, and I'm feeling very feverish as well.
D: Okay. Have you checked your temperature?
P: No, I haven't actually checked it, but I'm just feeling hot and I'm having chills.
D: Okay. Were you having, like, night sweats as well?
P: Yeah, last night I did get sweaty.
D: Okay, and when did you start feeling feverish?
P: Feverish, maybe around the same time, like, right after the cough. And shortness of breath started maybe a day and a half ago.
D: Okay, so the cough started about a day and a half ago as well?
P: Yes.
D: Okay. Did you have a cough prior to this, or is it new?
P: It's new.
D: Okay, Is it a dry cough or are you bringing up sputum or phlegm?
P: He's. Yeah, it's. It's dry most of the time, but once in a while I'll see some, like, yellow phlegm.
D: Okay. Have you noticed any blood?
P: No, no blood.
D: All right. And have you had any chest pain?
P: No chest. Well, actually, when I try to take a really deep breath in. Hurts. My chest hurts.
D: Okay, and where do you feel the pain?
P: It seems to be central on my chest.
D: Do you feel it radiating anywhere, like, to your back or to either side?
P: No.
D: Okay, how would you describe the pain? Be it like, sharp, dull?
P: It's pretty sharp. When I take a deep breath in.
D: How long does the pain last for? And is there anything that you do that makes it go away?
P: It lasts, like, less than a minute, and it goes away when I, like if I try not to take a deep breath in.
D: Okay, so it sounds like the breathing is a trigger there when you're breathing in deeply.
P: Yeah.
D: All right, and have you had any wheeze?
P: A little bit, yes.
D: All right, and is the wheeze new as well?
P: Yes, that also started after the coughing and the shortness of breath.
D: All right, and have you had any episodes of feeling like your heart's racing or it's beating really fast?
P: No.
D: Okay, and you said that. Yeah. You've been short of breath as well. Are you really short of breath now? And what sorts of things have been really bringing it on for you?
P: Yeah, I'm still a little bit short of breath, and I guess the shortness of breath gets worse when I'm walking or doing something physical.
D: Okay, and is this new, or did you have this before?
P: It's new.
D: Okay. Have you noticed any swelling in Your. In your legs or extremities?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: And do you get short of breath if you lie down flat?
P: No, not that I've noticed.
D: And how many pillows do you sleep with?
P: Just the one.
D: Okay. And have you had any headaches?
P: No.
D: And how about any eye redness or discharge?
P: No.
D: Have you had a runny nose or felt congested?
P: Yeah, a little bit. Yeah, I've been. Yeah, I've been feeling a little congested.
D: And when did that start?
P: That started a little bit before the cough, actually.
D: Okay, and you're still feeling that now?
P: Yeah.
D: Okay. Have you had a sore throat?
P: No sore throat.
D: Okay. And have you had any muscle aches or body pains?
P: Yeah, I guess my muscle aches a little bit. It's very dull, though. It's not sharp.
D: Okay. And how has your energy been? Have you been fatigued?
P: Yeah, my energy has been pretty low. I've been feeling very tired.
D: Okay, and how long has that been going on for?
P: For about the same amount of time. Like three days? Yeah.
D: All right. And have you had any abdominal pain?
P: No.
D: How about nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: And then any changes to your urinary habits, like pain, pain or.
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. And how has your appetite been?
P: It hasn't been the greatest because I haven't been feeling well, but I've still been eating.
D: Okay. Have you had any weight loss over the last several months?
P: No, not that I've noticed.
D: And how about any changes to your sense of smell or sense of taste?
P: Sense of smell or taste? No, no changes there.
D: Okay. And then any skin changes or rashes?
P: No.
D: All right, so you've been experiencing this cough? Yeah, it started a couple of days ago with shortness of breath. And you're bringing up sputum sometimes and. And a fever that's started a bit more recently, as well as having some night sweats.
P: Yeah.
D: Have you experienced any other symptoms?
P: No, other than that. No symptoms.
D: I see. And have you tried anything to make the symptoms better?
P: I've tried some Tylenol. I've tried some, like, cough suppressants, but nothing seems to be helping.
D: Okay. And have you been diagnosed with any medical conditions before?
P: No, not. Well, actually, I have osteoporosis, for which I'm taking calcium and vitamin D as well as, like, alendronate. Alendronate. Some sort of bisphosphonate.
D: Okay. Have you had any bone fractures?
P: I had a hip fracture, like, two years ago.
D: Okay. And how's the recovery and mobility been?
P: Pretty good now.
D: Oh, that's great. And do you have any other medical conditions besides osteoporosis?
P: No, not that I. No.
D: And have you had any surgeries aside from the hip surgery two years ago?
P: I had my wisdom teeth taken out. I've had my gallbladder taken out. And I had, like. I had a PE a long time ago.
D: Okay, and what happened around that time with the pulmonary embolism? Was there a trigger, like a surgery around that time, or were you immobilized or anything?
P: Yeah, they think it happened right after my gallbladder removal because I was in the hospital for a while.
D: Okay, and so were you on any medication for a period of time after that?
P: Yeah, I was, but not anymore.
D: Okay. Okay. And are you taking any other medications besides the ones for your bones?
P: No. No other medications.
D: And do you have any allergies?
P: No.
D: Okay, and then could you tell me a little bit about your living situation right now? Are you living with anybody and whereabouts?
P: I live in an apartment by myself, and it's in London.
D: Okay, great. And do you have any supports in the home that help you with any activities of daily living, like either dressing or bathing or making food or even doing some of the shopping?
P: So I am pretty independent from most things. There will be, like, a CCAC care worker who comes in once in a while just to help me clean the house.
D: Okay, so once in a while, is this like once a week or. Once? Yeah. How often?
P: Yeah, once every two weeks.
D: Okay, that's great. It sounds like you're managing really well on your own. Do you have any other supports nearby, like family or friends?
P: I have some family close by. My son lives close by, and my daughter lives about two hours away. I'll see them about once a month.
D: Okay. And do you smoke cigarettes?
P: Yeah, I used to smoke, but I stopped about five years back.
D: Congratulations on quitting.
P: Thank you.
D: So you quit five years ago? And how long did you smoke for? And how much did you smoke?
P: I used to smoke. Not a lot. Just like one or two a day, and I did that for about 25 years.
D: Okay. And do you drink alcohol?
P: I'll have, like, a glass of wine once in a while.
D: And how often is once in a while? How many drinks per week would you say?
P: Per week? Maybe like, three.
D: Okay. And any heart or lung conditions that run in the family?
P: Yeah, so there is, like, lung cancer, there's asthma, there's copd. All of that. Someone, like, both sides of my family had.
D: Okay. And anybody in the family have, like, a bleeding disorder?
P: A bleeding disorder? No.
D: Okay. Anybody else in the family have Either a deep vein thrombosis or pe.
P: No.
D: All right. And have you been around anybody who's been sick?
P: No, not recently.
D: All right. And have you traveled anywhere outside of the city or.
P: No.
D: Okay, so that was everything I wanted to ask about today. Was there anything that you wanted to add?
P: No, those are all questions that I had. Do you think I need to be hospitalized because I'm very short of breath, or do you think I can just stay at home? Do you think I need antibiotics?
D: Yeah. So we'll check your temperature and confirm the fever and check your oxygen levels as well. You might need oxygen as you're mentioning with your shortness of breath. And we will get a chest X ray. And if we're seeing consolidation there, it's suggestive of pneumonia. You may need antibiotics that will cover those bugs. However, your symptoms do overlap with COVID as well, and so it will be important to get a Covid swab. But to answer, if you will need a hospital stay, I think we'll need to at least wait until some of the investigations come back, and that will help determine how severe the symptoms are. And we'll observe you over the next few hours, and if you are getting any worse or anything like that, then it might be a good idea to be admitted.
P: Okay. Yeah, that sounds good. Thank you.
D: You're welcome.
