D: So what brings you in here today?
P: I am here with my daughter who has just been having a cough for the past sort of two weeks.
D: Okay. And can you describe the cough a little bit? Is it a drive cough or is she bringing anything up?
P: It is a. It is a dry cough, but she just keeps coughing and coughing and. And then she just, you know, once Phil starts coughing, she just doesn't stop. And then there's been times when she just turns blue. She's coughing so much, and then it just gets gets better on its own. But yeah, it's a dry cough.
D: And what does the cough sound like? Is it like a harsh cough? A barky cough?
P: It's just. She just makes this noise when she's like, breathe. Trying to take a breath in. It's. It's. Yeah.
D: Okay. Is it kind of a wee?
P: Yeah, sure.
D: Okay. And so there's episodes where she also turns blue when she's coughing a lot.
P: Yeah, she does.
D: Okay.
P: She's also vomited once or twice.
D: Oh, I see. Okay. Any blood in the vomit or is she coughing up any blood? No, no. Okay, any. So this started two weeks ago. Any kind of symptoms of runny nose or cold, like symptoms before then?
P: Yeah, yeah, she did have a bit of a runny nose. It was just a watery discharge. And at that time, her cough, she had a cough as well. But I thought it was, you know, it was nothing. It was just like another flu. And it would get better, but then she just. The runny nose got better in a couple days, but the cough stayed. And it got. Got pretty worse. Yeah, it got worse.
D: Okay, other than the cough, any. Any fevers or chills?
P: No, I don't think she's had fevers. I haven't checked though.
D: Okay. And the cough is pretty constant or does it come and go?
P: Yeah, she just has these episodes where she's just coughs and coughs and coughs. And then she will either vomit or just turn blue or just get better in a couple. Couple minutes. It kind of comes and goes like that.
D: Okay. Is there anything that has helped her at all, like any over the counter medications or anything like that?
P: I haven't tried anything. I'm just worried about. You know, she's my first child and I don't know what to give her and what not to give her at this age. So I just decided to come in and not try anything over the counter.
D: And so has this happened before at all? No, the first time. Okay, any. So she is vomiting. Is the vomit like green in color or is she just vomiting up what she has eaten. What's the content of the vomit?
P: It's usually just what she's eaten.
D: Okay, any sick contacts recently or any travel?
P: No, I don't think so. Nothing really.
D: And how about her behavior? Does she seem like very tired or fatigued or more irritable?
P: She does get tired, especially after. And then she's just irritable and crying after. You know, she has these fits of cough.
D: Okay.
P: Yeah.
D: Okay. Any symptoms of diarrhea or constipation?
P: No.
D: Okay.
P: Any.
D: Any trouble with urinating at all?
P: No.
D: And how's her sleep been? Like.
P: Not great. It's just the cough keeps waking her up and she just can't fall asleep.
D: Okay. Any exposure to any dust or fumes or animals or pets at home?
P: We. We did get a cat about a month ago.
D: Okay. And any. Has she been diagnosed with any medical conditions in the past?
P: No.
D: And any allergies that you know of?
P: No.
D: And any previous hospitalizations or surgeries?
P: No.
D: And how was your pregnancy, Your pregnancy with her? Like, any complications at all?
P: No, no complications. It was. It was very. Yeah, it went well.
D: And was she at term or premature?
P: She was born at term.
D: Was it a vaginal delivery or a C section?
P: Vaginal.
D: And did she have to stay in the NICU at all or the hospital afterwards?
P: No.
D: Okay. And is she feeding well, like, what does she usually eat?
P: She's eating well. She's doing. She eats everything. She eats everything.
D: And any family history of any medical conditions?
P: No.
D: And does anyone smoke in the house?
P: Her dad, but he. He doesn't smoke in front of her.
D: And what's her living situation like? Who does she live with? And do you live in a house. Apartment.
P: Oh, yeah, we live in an apartment. It's me, my partner, her and the ca. Yeah.
D: And any difficulties or complications with her growth, like in terms of her weight or height?
P: No, no complications. She's doing well.
D: Okay. And in terms of her milestones, has she been meeting all of them on time?
P: Yeah.
D: Okay, so I think those are all the questions I have for you today. Do you have any questions or concerns?
P: No. Yeah.
D: So based on the symptoms. Oh, yeah, sorry, I forgot to ask one other question. And she. Are her immunizations all up to date?
P: Oh, no, no, I don't. I don't get those. My friend's dog. My friend's daughter developed autism and I'm just. I don't want that, you know? So, no, I don't vaccinate my kids or. I don't vaccinate My daughter and I haven't been. Yeah, I'm not. I won't be doing that.
D: And have you been vaccinated throughout your life?
P: Maybe when I was young, but I. Yeah, I don't. I just don't believe in vaccinations. I. Yeah, no, I don't. I don't get those.
D: Yeah. So there's definitely. There's a lot of research done beside this behind vaccinations, and a lot of prevention goes into them. But definitely there is some anecdotal evidence of very loose associations to autism that have been found to be invalid. Like they've been invalidated by the research. So definitely they very important to get your child vaccinated. In fact, some of the symptoms that your child may be having right now can be caused by something called pertussis, and there's usually a vaccination for that, like after pregnancy as well. So that's something that is definitely on the differential. And at this time, we definitely need to make sure she's okay and get her vitals done, see her oxygenation saturation, and just do supportive care while she's in the hospital. And we may need to admit her, but we'll do the full physical examination today, get a Covid swab done as well. And usually she's currently in the. It seems to be like the second phase where she's vomiting and coughing a lot. And then it usually after that phase, two or three more weeks of just coughing. And so we're going to do some supportive care for her right now. But, yeah, definitely you should consider vaccinating your child. We recommend that to every parent as there's a lot of diseases out there that can be completely prevented if you vaccinate your child.
P: Okay, I'll think about it.
D: All right. So for now, we're going to just make sure that she's doing well. Okay, sure. All right, take care.
