D: What brings you in?
P: I brought my son in today because he had a fever that started two days ago, and then since then, he's had a cough that started as well, and he's been short of breath. It looks like he's breathing faster and just having a harder time to breathe.
D: Okay, before the fever, did you notice any other symptoms, like a runny nose or a stuffy nose?
P: No, nothing like that. Yeah, the fever kind of came on pretty suddenly. It seemed like.
D: Okay. And did you take his temperature at home?
P: I did, yeah. It was like 38.7, and then like two days ago, and then it was high again, like yesterday and today.
D: Okay, and you mentioned the coughing started soon after the fever, correct?
P: Yeah. Yeah, kind of like the day after you started getting this cough.
D: Okay, and is it a dry cough or is it a productive cough?
P: It's. Yeah, he is bringing up a little bit of sputum. Yeah.
D: Okay. What color is the sputum?
P: It's maybe like greenish. Greenish yellow.
D: Greenish yellow. Okay. Any blood in there?
P: No, I haven't noticed any blood.
D: Okay, and does he seem short of breath or wheezy?
P: No wheezing, but he does have some shortness of breath.
D: Okay, and the shortness of breath started with a cough?
P: It did, yeah.
D: Okay, how much shortness of breath is he having? Is it just when he's exerting himself or is it at rest as well?
P: I'd say even at rest now he's breathing faster.
D: Okay. And does anything help with that? So does sitting up help or, you know, getting fresh air, anything like that?
P: No, but you'd say, like, taking smaller breaths helps because, like, if he. If he takes a deep breath, then he gets. He gets, like, chest pain.
D: Okay. Okay. And how about when he's laying down?
P: No, he hasn't said anything like that for laying down. Just. I think when he was just taking a deep breath, he said okay.
D: Is it waking him up from sleep?
P: No.
D: No. Okay, how about chest pain?
P: Yeah, so, yeah, he's had some pain when he. When he takes that deep breath in.
D: Okay. Does he ever feel like his heart's racing?
P: No.
D: No. Okay, how about dizziness or fainting spells?
P: No, he hasn't had anything like that.
D: Okay. Has he had a sore throat?
P: No.
D: No. Any changes in vision or hearing?
P: No.
D: Smell or taste?
P: No.
D: No weight loss?
P: No, he's been gaining weight.
D: Well, okay, how about any rashes?
P: Nope, I haven't noticed any.
D: Okay, and then any numbness or tingling?
P: No, he hasn't said anything like that.
D: Okay. Muscle aches or Joint aches?
P: No.
D: Okay. Confusion or memory loss?
P: No.
D: Changes in his bowel movements?
P: Nope. Yeah, that's been good. No diarrhea or anything like that.
D: Okay. Changes in his voiding?
P: Nope. He hasn't had any urinary problems.
D: Okay. And is he an otherwise healthy child? Does he have any long standing medical conditions?
P: No, he doesn't. This one was so surprising. He's been healthy.
D: Okay, has he? So he's never had any hospitalizations or surgeries?
P: No, he hasn't.
D: Okay, how about his mother's pregnancy with him? Were there any complications? Complications? At that point?
P: No, Everything went well. No complications. And he was like a good birth weight and went home right away.
D: Okay. Okay. And how about the delivery itself? Any complications during that point?
P: Oh, no, it was a vaginal delivery and it was normal.
D: Okay. And he didn't need to be hospitalized as a newborn for anything like jaundice or shortness of breath?
P: Nope. He hasn't had any reason to be hospitalized.
D: Okay. All right. And has he been hitting all his developmental milestones as well as like his height, weight and head circumference milestones?
P: He has, yeah. He's been growing. Well. And reaching the development milestones.
D: Okay. Is he on any medications?
P: No, he's not on any medications.
D: Okay. Any allergies?
P: No allergies.
D: Is he up to date with all his immunizations?
P: He is, yeah.
D: Okay, Any family history of lung or heart conditions?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay, how about cancers in the family?
P: No cancers, luckily.
D: Can you think of anyone he's been in contact with who's also been sick?
P: Yeah, maybe he has a younger sister that goes to daycare and she was sick last week with like, she had a cough and stuff as well.
D: Okay. Okay. And does she have a fever as well?
P: She did, yeah. She got better last week.
D: We.
P: We had to take her to see the doctor and she got antibiotics for that actually for a few days.
D: Okay. Okay. And have you traveled anywhere recently?
P: No, we've been at home.
D: Okay. Does anyone at home smoke?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. And who lives at home with him?
P: So it's me, his mom, and then his younger sister.
D: Okay. Any old carpets, mold, dust, asbestos, anything that could exacerbate his condition?
P: No, I don't think so. It's a newer home.
D: Okay, good. So those are all the questions that I had for you. Did you have any questions of your own?
P: No, I know that was everything. I think the only. I guess, other thing that I forgot to mention is that just he hasn't really, like his appetite's been a little bit lower these last couple days as well. But he hasn't had any, like, nausea or vomiting, though.
D: Okay. Okay. Yeah, that's good to know. So, because some of his symptoms overlap with those of COVID we will do a swab on him, and you should hear back in about 24 to 48 hours with those results. And he should isolate for 14 days because of those symptoms. And it doesn't. It sounds more in keeping with the picture of community acquired pneumonia. So for that, we will get a chest X ray, we'll check his oxygen and his temperature. And if the chest X ray shows consolidation or some sort of infiltrate, it is likely that he has pneumonia. So we will start by giving him some amoxicillin, coagulate or cefuroxime for five days and just keep monitoring his symptoms. They should resolve in about five days when the course of antibiotics is complete. If his condition gets worse, like he's getting neurological deficits like weakness or seizures, just take him to the er. And if his symptoms don't resolve in five to seven days, we can do further workup for things like fungal infections or TB or things like that. How does that sound?
P: That sounds great. Thank you.
D: Okay. Yeah, no problem.
