D: What brings you in here today?
P: Yeah, hi. So I have been very busy for the past week, and I'm also, like, consistently coughing all the time, and it's not getting any better. I do have asthma, and I think it's acting up.
D: Okay, and how long have you had asthma for?
P: Since I was, like, five.
D: Okay. And are you using any puffers?
P: Yes. So I am on a short, acting as well as an inhaled corticosteroid, and I only take the short acting like when I have symptoms.
D: Okay, and so how long have you been symptoms worsening for?
P: For the past week, I would say.
D: Okay. And how often have you used the Ventolin?
P: The Ventolin I use almost every day. Like, a couple times a day.
D: Okay, so would you say more than 10 times?
P: Yes.
D: Okay. And have you had to miss any school or anything like that over the past week?
P: I missed two days.
D: Two days. Okay. And are you just getting daytime symptoms or are you waking up from sleep or not being able to sleep because of your symptoms?
P: I woke up twice last week.
D: Okay. Okay. So, yeah, definitely seems like your symptoms are really acting up. So you're getting some wheezing and did you say you're also getting a cough?
P: Yes, that's right.
D: Okay, and what kind of things would you be doing that you get these symptoms? Is it mostly exertion or is it exposure to dust or any other environmental factors?
P: It's mostly exertion, but things like cold air can trigger it too.
D: Okay, I see. Okay. Any. Have you been exposed to any new environments where there's, you know, dusty carpets, mold, new animals, anything like that?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Okay. And how would you describe the cough? Is it wet or dry?
P: It's dry.
D: Okay, And. And how about the wheezing? Are you getting it, like, frequently every time you have an episode or. Just sometimes.
P: I'm getting an on and off, but basically every time I cough after that, I'll be wheezy for a little bit.
D: Okay. Okay. And are you having any other symptoms like sore throat, runny nose, shortness of breath, anything like that?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. And any blood in your sputum at all?
P: No, no blood.
D: Okay. Okay. And has the Ventolin been helping at all, or do you find that it's less effective?
P: The Ventolin, it's been helping temporarily, but it definitely doesn't hop as much as it used to.
D: Okay. And have you traveled at all recently or been in touch with anyone who's been sick?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. And any headaches, nausea, or vomiting?
P: No, nothing like that?
D: Nothing like that. Okay. Any dizziness or fainting?
P: No.
D: No. Any fevers or chills?
P: No.
D: Any fatigue?
P: A little bit, because I haven't been sleeping too well.
D: Okay. Any sensation of chest pain or racing of your heart?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. Any changes in your bowel movements?
P: No.
D: Any changes in your appetite or weight?
P: No.
D: Any changes in your sense of smell or taste?
P: No.
D: Okay. Okay. And other than asthma since you were 5, do you have any other medical conditions at all?
P: No.
D: Okay, so you take the Ventolin, and then do you take the inhaled corticosteroid puffer as well?
P: I do.
D: Okay. And do you take that daily?
P: Yes.
D: Okay. Any other medications that you take?
P: No, just some multivitamins. That's about it.
D: Any allergies to any medications that you know of?
P: Not to medications I'm allergic to, like strawberries and kiwis.
D: Okay. And what kind of reaction do you get?
P: I just break out in hives.
D: Okay. And have you been previously hospitalized for any reason?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any past surgeries?
P: Nope.
D: Okay. And currently, like, who do you live with?
P: I live with both my parents and two of my siblings.
D: Okay. And are any of them sick at all?
P: No, everyone's pretty healthy.
D: Okay. And so currently, right now, you're 16. This is an age where sometimes your peers or yourself might experiment with alcohol, smoking, or recreational drugs. Have you. Have you tried anything at all?
P: No, I haven't.
D: Okay. Do you have any friends or peers that have tried alcohol or recreational drugs?
P: I don't think so.
D: Okay. And in terms of just your home environment, school, do you feel safe or do you find yourself feeling unsafe or having been bullied at all?
P: Oh, I'm pretty. I feel pretty safe.
D: Okay, that's good. And any family history of any heart or lung conditions at all?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. So, yeah, those are all the questions I had for you today. Do you have any questions?
P: Yeah. So what can I do about these symptoms? Should I continue taking my puffers?
D: Yeah. So what we'll have to do is reassess. So right now we'll need to alleviate some of your symptoms. So we will get you some Ventolin, and you may well do, like, a full physical examination and get your oxygen saturation and everything. And you might need some corticosteroids as well. And then we'll talk about changing your regimen for your puffers as well, and whether or not we need to add something else into your therapy. So we'll do a full physical examination and then go on from there. Does that sound good?
P: Yeah, that sounds great. Thank you.
D: You're welcome.
