D: How may I help you?
P: Hi. Nice to meet you. I've just been experiencing a cough for the last few weeks, and I also recently started noticing that I'm coughing up some blood as well. Like it's mixed into like, sputum.
D: I see. All right, so you said a few weeks with the cough. Is this more than three weeks, more than four weeks or a few months? Almost.
P: I would say almost like three weeks now.
D: Okay. When the cough started, were you bringing up. Were you bringing up sputum or phlegm at that time?
P: Yeah, initially it was just like kind of white to sometimes yellowish phlegm. But now over the last week, I've been also noticing some blood in it as well.
D: Okay, and how much blood have you been bringing up? Just trying to think maybe teaspoon sizes, if you can.
P: Yeah, I would say maybe half a teaspoon break each time.
D: Okay, and have you been having any shortness of breath?
P: No, I don't think so, but kind of like I do feel some discomfort in my chest. Like I just associated that with the cough.
D: I see. Have you had any chest pain?
P: No, it's more of just the discomfort with the coughing.
D: Okay, and have you had any changes to your breathing, like wheezing?
P: No, nothing like that. All right, and.
D: Have you had any infectious or viral type symptoms like itchy eyes or runny nose, sore throat?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay, and how was your energy been? Any fatigue?
P: It's kind of been a bit low over the last few weeks. Just I feel more tired. Yeah, I've had to miss a few days of work as well. I see.
D: All right, have you had any fevers or chills?
P: Definitely. I feel like I have had some chills over the last week. I haven't had a chance to measure my temperature though.
D: Okay, have you felt feverish or have you felt hot at any point?
P: Yeah, I would say like a few times this week I've also felt like, hot.
D: All right, have you had any, like, night sweats?
P: Now that you mentioned it, like, I would say two days out of the last week I've had night sweats where my sheets were kind of just drenched when I. And then I woke up noticing that.
D: All right, and how about your. Your weight? Have you had any changes to your weight over the last several months?
P: Yeah, I think I've lost maybe £10 in the last couple months.
D: Okay, it sounds like some. Some weight loss. Significant weight loss. Have you been trying to lose weight?
P: No, not really.
D: Okay, and have you felt as though like your heart's racing or beating really fast?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Have you had any, like fainting or dizziness?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. And how about any nausea or vomiting?
P: No, no nausea.
D: Have you had any abdominal pain?
P: No.
D: Any diarrhea?
P: No.
D: Any urinary problems like pain or going often?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Have you noticed any rashes anywhere?
P: No, no rashes.
D: And have you had any muscle aches or joint pains?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay.
P: And.
D: Have you been diagnosed with any medical conditions in the past?
P: No, I've been fairly healthy.
D: Okay, that's good. And have you had any surgeries or any reasons to be hospitalized before?
P: No.
D: Do you take any medications or any over the counter supplements?
P: No.
D: All right. Any allergies that you're aware of?
P: Not that I know, no.
D: Okay. And are your immunizations up to date?
P: Immunizations are all up to date, yeah.
D: All right. And currently, can you tell me a little bit about who you're living with and where you're living?
P: Yeah, currently I'm living just in. It's kind of like a home with just. I don't really know the people too well. Just kind of like a home where a bunch of guys are just living and working separately. I just actually recently moved here from the Philippines six months ago.
D: I see. Okay. Do you interact with many of the people in the house? And has anybody else been sick?
P: I don't know if anyone else has been sick. I haven't really noticed it. I don't really see them too much.
D: Okay. And six months ago, prior to. I am. Yeah. Coming from the Philippines, was anybody sick there or did you hear of anybody that you spent time with having tuberculosis?
P: Yeah, there's been. Not anyone that I know of, but there's definitely. Like. Even where I worked and things like that, there's definitely people who have had tuberculosis in the past.
D: I see. Okay.
P: And.
D: Do you smoke cigarettes?
P: No.
D: And how about smoking cannabis or using any products?
P: Nope, nothing like that.
D: Okay. And do you use any recreational drugs?
P: No.
D: Okay. And are you currently sexually active?
P: Currently? No.
D: Okay, so no concerns for a sexually transmitted infection at this time?
P: No.
D: Okay. And have you traveled anywhere recently?
P: Not recently, no.
D: Okay. But. And anybody in the family have heart or lung conditions?
P: No.
D: Okay. And any cancer that run in the family?
P: Not that I know.
D: Okay, So I think that's everything I wanted to ask on history today. So it sounds like you've been having this cough that's been going on for just over three weeks now. And starting with some whitish clear sputum. And more recently, you've started to be coughing up some blood as well. And you've also been really fatigued. And I've had some malaise over the last several weeks. And any other symptoms? Oh, and also, yeah, you've had some night sweats, chills, and been feeling feverish as well. So we'll certainly check a temperature today, too. Is there anything I missed?
P: No, I think that that sounds great. Thank you so much.
D: Okay, so we'll get the testing started.
P: For.
D: The investigations, and, yeah, if at any point symptoms get worse, we'll reevaluate.
P: Yeah, sounds good. Thank you so much.
