D: Would you mind my starting to tell you what brought you today?
P: Yeah, I just. Over the last week, I can't do anything without just feeling really short of breath and having a really hard time breathing. I kind of do anyways, because I have copd, so I feel like over a few years it's been getting worse, but this week it just got really bad in particular.
D: Okay, I see. So how much activity were you doing that was bringing on the shortness of breath?
P: Like, I usually, I will walk my dog around the block and I haven't been able to do that. My husband's been doing it. Then I was just going to try to get the mail. Just like, I don't know, it's probably like 200ft down the road and I could. I was so tired when I got back and I felt like I could barely breathe.
D: Okay, and did you have any chest pain with this?
P: No, no, nothing like that.
D: Okay, and when did the shortness of breath symptoms start coming on?
P: Like, it. I've been. I feel like it's been sort of getting worse over the past few years, but just like a week ago it just got really bad, like very suddenly.
D: Okay, and has it been getting worse over this past week or has it stayed the same?
P: Well, maybe getting a bit worse. Like been pretty bad the whole time.
D: Okay, I see. And have you had a cough?
P: Yeah, like, I. Again, like, I do normally because of my copd, but it's just been really. It's been even worse this week. And usually when I get sick, it's more like I'm like, bringing up a lot of, like, yellowy gunk. But this time it's not been quite as, like, gunky. It's been pretty dry.
D: Okay, so you're not bringing up any sputum with your cough?
P: No. Maybe, maybe a tiny bit, but I kind of do that. Like, anyways.
D: Okay. And have you coughed up any blood?
P: No.
D: Okay. And have you had any other symptoms that went along with this difficulty breathing and cough?
P: I mean, I've been. I. I don't have a thermometer at home, but I have felt like really hot. And just this morning, like my husband, you know, he was trying to make sure I was still eating and drinking a lot, and I don't really feel like I am tasting my food all that well.
D: Okay, so would you say that you have a loss of taste right now?
P: I'm pretty. Yeah, yeah, I'm pretty sure I couldn't really taste my breakfast.
D: Okay, and how about your sense of smell?
P: Yeah, come to think of It. I don't. I don't think I've really been smelling much.
D: Okay, so you're not able to smell either. Do you feel like your nose is congested or are really runny?
P: It's not. It's not particularly congested or anything.
D: Okay. But still have had these changes in taste and smell. Okay. And we'll check your temperature as well to see if we can. If there is a documented fever, have you had any night sweats?
P: What's that?
D: So generally patients would. Will say that their sheets are soaked and it will wake them up sometimes because it's uncomfortable.
P: Oh, no, I haven't had that.
D: Okay. How about any chills? So it could be like when you're kind of shaking in your. In your bed?
P: No, not really. Just. Just like they're really, I think like fever, I think fevers.
D: Okay. And have you, over the last several months, have you had any weight loss?
P: No, I think I've been pretty well the same.
D: Okay. And with the change in taste, how has your appetite been?
P: Well, I mean, that was just this morning that I noticed that before that I think I was eating, like pretty. Okay.
D: Okay. And have you felt as though your heart was racing at any point?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any dizziness or feeling lightheaded?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: Okay. And any abdominal pain?
P: No.
D: How about any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Okay. Have you had any diarrhea or constipation?
P: Maybe. Maybe a little diarrhea, but I didn't know if that was just something I ate or what.
D: Okay, so when did the diarrhea start?
P: Like. Yes, yesterday.
D: Okay. And approximately how many times did you go to the bathroom, would you say?
P: Oh, probably like twice where it was really loose.
D: Okay. And did you notice any blood?
P: No.
D: Okay. Has that happened again today?
P: No, I didn't go today.
D: Okay. And have you had any urinary problems, like painful urination or needing to go really often?
P: No.
D: Okay. And have you had any headaches?
P: Come to think of it, a little bit, I just thought I was like. It was maybe because I was tired, but yeah, I've had headaches.
D: Okay. Have you had headaches like this in the past?
P: I mean, only when there is like reasons for it, like being really over tired or. Yeah.
D: Okay. Does this feel similar to any of those times?
P: I don't know. It's hard to say. Like I am tired, so yeah, I think so.
D: Okay. Would you say this was the worst headache of your life or kind of like a thunderclap sensation?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. And have you had any photosensitivity or kind of sensitivity of the light or sensitivity to sound?
P: No.
D: Okay, and next question would be, have you had any joint aches or muscle aches or general body aches?
P: I mean, I'm a little. I feel like I haven't been moving as much. Feel a little sore. I thought it was maybe just because I, you know, wasn't going for my long walks and my body was, like, getting tired and stiff, but, yeah, I feel a bit achy.
D: Okay. And have you noticed any rashes or changes in your skin?
P: No.
D: Okay. And then I'm not sure if I asked, but did you have a sore throat?
P: No.
D: Okay. And next, I just wanted to ask about your past health. Is there anything you see a physician for regularly.
P: Just, like, the copd.
D: Okay.
P: My family doctor.
D: Okay. And do you use inhalers for that?
P: Oh, geez. I haven't seen my family doctor in a while because of the COVID stuff. So I had an inhaler that was probably like. Like, before COVID that it was prescribed, and then I ran out at some point, and I haven't got it renewed.
D: Okay, so when was the last time you used an inhaler? A week ago, A month ago?
P: I probably ran out, like, two months ago, but I wasn't using it every day. It was, like, one of those ones for, like, when you need it. And now. Now this week, I wish I would have had it.
D: Okay, I see. So before, like, two months ago, how often would you say you were using it?
P: Maybe once or once a week.
D: Okay. And when. What types of situations were you finding yourself needing to use it more often, or rather, were there any kind of triggers to those events?
P: Like, if I. If I say I took my dog for a walk and they kind of got away and I had to run a little, like, run a little bit. Usually I walk, like, pretty fast, but if I have to run, that would. That would make. It. Would make me have to use it.
D: Okay, So a lot more exertion than what you're able to do now, it sounds like.
P: Yeah, like, heavier exercise.
D: I see. And any other medications, like, prescribed or over the counter that you take?
P: No, that was it.
D: All right. And have you had any surgeries before?
P: I had my appendix out when I was in my 20s.
D: Okay. And any allergies?
P: No.
D: Okay. And have you been anybody. Sorry. Have you been around anybody who's been sick recently?
P: Well, we haven't really seen anyone because of the COVID stuff. So it's just my. My husband has someone, like, has a Friend that comes over for them to. They. They watch, like, the sports games together. Like, our friend lives alone, so that's really the only person that's been coming into our house. And I don't. I don't know that I don't think he's been sick, but he. He might have been around people that were sick.
D: Okay, I see. So he hasn't had any symptoms, though?
P: Not that I know of. We haven't heard from him in a few days, though.
D: Okay. And how has your husband been?
P: He's been well. He said he, like, he had a bit of a scratchy throat, but I don't think he's. He hasn't really felt sick, I don't think.
D: Okay. And do you live with anybody else, or is it just you and your husband?
P: Just the two of us and our dog.
D: Okay. And do you smoke cigarettes?
P: Yeah, I tried to stop, but I smoke like a pack a day.
D: Okay. We can talk maybe about quitting if you're interested, later on in the appointment or at another time at a follow up.
P: Sure, sure.
D: Okay. And do you drink alcohol?
P: Like maybe like a glass of wine on a Friday?
D: Okay. So very. It sounds occasionally. Maybe a drink a week?
P: Yeah, something like that.
D: All right. And do you smoke marijuana?
P: No.
D: Okay. Or how about use, like, any, like, edibles or anything like that?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay, and then how about any recreational drugs?
P: Like what?
D: Like things like cocaine, crystal meth, ecstasy? Okay, and has anybody in your family had any heart conditions before?
P: My dad had, like, high blood pressure.
D: Okay. Anybody have a heart attack?
P: No, not that I know of.
D: Okay, and anybody in the family have lung conditions in the past?
P: No.
D: Okay. And then any cancers that run in the family?
P: No.
D: All right, so was there anything else that you think I should know today that maybe I didn't ask about?
P: I just feel tired. I just feel, like, really tired.
D: Okay. Certainly that can be part of kind of how you're feeling. And right now with the situation of the pandemic, Covid is definitely one thing that we'll be testing for today. And so do you think I have Covid? It's very possible because of how general the symptoms are for Covid, and so it's something that we'll want to test for. That being said, you could have another viral illness such as the common cold, like adenovirus, or you could have a bacterial infection that's not Covid related at all. Or this could be an exacerbation of your copd and maybe we need to just titrate your inhalers. So will need to just run some lab work and do a PCR nasal swab as part of the workup, and we will see what some of those investigations show.
P: Oh, geez. Okay.
D: Okay. And so in the meantime, I need to quarantine for 14 days.
P: And.
D: If the results are positive, we'll have to notify Public health so that the appropriate contact tracing can be made, but we'll get the investigation started now.
P: Okay. Thanks, Doc.
D: All right. You're welcome.
