D: How may I help you?
P: Hi. I'm here because I've oddly been feeling really short of breath, and I have a fever and a cough.
D: Okay, when did the shortness of breath start? And are you short of breath now?
P: It started about. I guess I could start yesterday and a little bit, but it's getting better.
D: Started yesterday. Okay, well, I'm glad it's getting better. When did the cough start?
P: It started around this Eve time.
D: Okay. Is it a dry cough or what? Okay, is this cough new or have you had a cough before?
P: No, it's. It's kind of new.
D: All right, have you brought up any? I don't use it. No, it's been dry. But have you brought up any blood?
P: No.
D: Okay. And have you had any wheezing?
P: No.
D: Okay. And you mentioned with a fever as well. Have you checked your temperature today or yesterday?
P: Yeah, it was 38 last night.
D: And are you feeling feverish today as well?
P: Yeah, a little bit.
D: Okay. And so have you had any infectious symptoms like runny or red eyes?
P: No.
D: How about a runny nose or feeling congested?
P: No, no, it's just a cough.
D: The cough. Okay. And what were you around any triggers yesterday or, like, around any. Anything that was out of the normal for you?
P: I kind of noticed that this happens to me every time I go to my boyfriend's place. Place. So I started dating. I started dating someone new about six months ago, and every time I go to his place a couple hours later, I just, like, develop these symptoms. Just kind of odd. I thought that I was just getting a cold, but now that it's happened, like three times, I'm thinking maybe I have some sort of an allergy. Like, maybe. I don't know, maybe it's like, yeah, I'm just allergic to something. Maybe his plants or something. I don't know.
D: Okay. And does this happen each time that you go. Go to his house?
P: Yeah. Yeah, kind of almost. Yeah, that's the. Like. Yeah. I haven't been to his place very often because of the pandemic, but, yeah, every time I go kind of feel really crappy after I see.
D: Okay. And are there any other environments you can think of where this happens or have these symptoms happened at any other point?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: Okay, and have you had a sore throat?
P: No.
D: How about any losses of smell or taste?
P: No.
D: Okay. And have you had any chest pain?
P: No, no, I haven't.
D: Okay. And have you had any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: All right. And any abdominal pain or diarrhea?
P: No.
D: Any urinary problems like painful urination or frequency?
P: No.
D: Have you had any muscle aches or body pains?
P: Yeah, yeah, I've been feeling achy and kind of tired these past, well, like 12, 14 hours.
D: I see. Okay. So has this been kind of like all over or is there a particular muscles sore or our body part?
P: No, it's like all over.
D: Okay. And you've been fatigued as well?
P: Oh, yeah.
D: Okay. Have you had any headaches?
P: No.
D: Any skin changes or rashes?
P: No.
D: All right, and then how about any night sweats or chills? I know you mentioned fevers.
P: No, I've just been feeling hot.
D: Okay. And how's your weight been over the last several months? Have you lost weight or gaining weight or has it been the same?
P: It's kind of in the same.
D: Okay. And in the past, have you been diagnosed with any medical conditions?
P: No, I'm pretty healthy.
D: Okay. Yeah. You haven't had asthma in the past or anything like that?
P: No. No.
D: Okay. Any allergies to medications you're aware of or environmental things like. Or dust or pollen?
P: No. No. Which is why I was kind of surprised. I'm usually fine. I spend a lot of time outdoors, so I don't know. Yeah, I was surprised when this happened when I went to his place.
D: Okay. Do you ever get these kind of symptoms if you are around smoke or anything like that? You're could maybe be inhaling or even if you are outside in the cold?
P: No.
D: Okay. Do you get seasonal symptoms, like throughout the year you get itchy runny eyes or a runny nose?
P: No, no, that hasn't happened to me.
D: Okay. And do you take any medications?
P: I just take a birth control pill.
D: And when. How long have you been on that for?
P: About three years.
D: Okay. And any prior surgeries or hospitalizations? No. All right. And can you tell me a little bit about where you're living currently and who you're living with?
P: I live alone. I have an apartment next to the university.
D: Okay. And any potential for being around anybody who's been sick, like your boyfriend or his family or anywhere else?
P: No, I've just been visiting him and I just go grocery shopping. I've just. I've been doing schooling online. Yeah, I don't think so. And I'm usually very careful. I'm not. Yeah, I'm not maintaining social distancing with my boyfriend. He's in my social circle, but, yeah, other than that, no one, I don't think. Yeah, no one seems sick.
D: Luna, have you traveled anywhere?
P: Nope.
D: All right. And are you currently working or going to school.
P: I'm going to school.
D: Okay, cool. And are you currently sexually active?
P: Yeah.
D: Okay. And are you using birth control? Are you using condoms?
P: Yep.
D: Okay. Any concern for sexually transmitted infection at this time?
P: No, no, I'm very careful.
D: Okay. And do you smoke cigarettes?
P: No.
D: Do you drink alcohol?
P: Sometimes, like during, like, parties and stuff, but I haven't really been drinking much because there's nothing going on.
D: Okay. Yeah. I see. And do you use any recreational drugs?
P: No.
D: All right. And in the family, is there a history of any lung problems or any heart problems?
P: Just high blood pressure. My mom and dad have it.
D: Okay. And so I wanted to ask about a boyfriend's house as well. Is there any pets in the home there?
P: Oh, yeah, yeah. He has this cute little parrot and he also has a cat.
D: Okay. And do you have any pets at your house?
P: No. No, I don't.
D: Okay. So I think that was everything that I wanted to ask on. On history today. Was there anything else that I forgot to mention or you wanted to. To bring up?
P: I don't think so, no.
D: Okay, so it sounds like there's potentially could be caused by an allergen such as, which could be from an animal like a parrot or a cat that is causing just a reaction that's bringing these symptoms on, like, called hypersensitivity pneumonitis. But it also, we can't rule out asthma as well as being a trigger of kind of the cough and shortness of breath as being around allergens as well. So we'll order pulmonary function tests and maybe some imaging, chest X ray, and we will go from there.
P: Great. Thank you.
