D: What brings you in today?
P: Hey. So I just. For the last couple days, I've just been feeling really short of breath, really run down, just like super tired and, you know, normally really active. And I'm just. I'm just having a rough go.
D: Is the shortness of breath new for you?
P: Yeah, yeah, it's just like I can't. I don't know, like I can't catch up. I kind of just feel. I feel a bit weak. Like, I've just been feeling really tired and then because of that, I haven't really been eating a lot, so. Yeah, I don't know.
D: So you've just been feeling very tired. Can you, I guess, like, tell me a little bit more about your difficulty with breathing. When does it happen?
P: I think just like, overall, I'm finding it, like, it's hard to. It's hard to get, like, super deep breaths. It's not like I can't. I don't get the feeling that I can't breathe. It's just that everything's a little bit more, like, laborious.
D: Okay. And you said that it started a few days ago. Have you had any other symptoms other than the difficulty breathing and the fatigue? I mean.
P: I think I felt really hot yesterday. I don't know the thermometer, but I had my wife put her. Put her hand on my forehead and she got a. I felt pretty warm. And come to think of it, this morning, I really. I didn't eat much because I just haven't been that hungry. But I don't really. I feel like I couldn't really taste my breakfast.
D: Has that ever happened to you before?
P: No, never. I like my food.
D: Yeah, me too. Okay. What about your sense of smell? Do you feel like you're having. You're not able to smell well either?
P: I haven't thought about it too hard, but yeah, kind of.
D: Okay. And have you had a cough?
P: I don't know. I feel like I maybe could be starting. Starting one?
D: Sure.
P: Like, it's when it feels dry, like it's on its way. I haven't really been caught.
D: I see. What about his sore throat?
P: It's starting to feel a little bit like that. Like, I don't know if I'm imagining it, but. Yeah, I think so.
D: I see. Okay. Have you had a runny nose or any congestion?
P: No.
D: Any headaches?
P: Good question. I kind of get headaches fairly often. I don't think I'm getting any more than usual, but I have had a little bit headaches.
D: Okay. Is the headache that you've had different in quality from the headaches that you usually get?
P: I don't know. I don't know. I usually get kind of just like, stress, headache, you know?
D: Yeah. Yeah.
P: Things pretty well the same. And I am just that I, you know, might be sick.
D: Mm. And have you had any changes in your vision or hearing?
P: No.
D: In the past three, four days? No. Okay. Any nausea or vomiting?
P: No, No, I haven't.
D: Have you had any chest pain?
P: Like, it's. No. Yeah. No chest pain. Any.
D: Do you feel like your heart's beating really fast?
P: No, I wouldn't say so.
D: Okay. Have you had any pain in your belly?
P: No, I'm not hungry because I haven't really been eating, but.
D: Okay. Any urinary symptoms?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: And you mentioned you have muscle aches. Is it all over your body or is it a specific part? Specific area?
P: I would just say I feel kind of overall achy.
D: Okay.
P: Not any one spot?
D: Any numbness or tingling in your arms or legs?
P: No.
D: Okay. All right. Have you had any exposure to anyone who could potentially be sick?
P: Well, my grandkids visited last weekend, and my grandson has a cold. He goes to daycare. Yeah. So I'm not really sure. Like, he's been staying home, and they didn't. They didn't really know that when they came to visit.
D: Mm. Okay. That's. Yeah. Okay. And have you traveled anywhere outside the province? No. No. No. Okay. All right. Do you have any medical conditions that you've been diagnosed?
P: I'm pretty healthy. I have some, like, reflux that I see my doctor for, and I've had some difficulties, like, with, like, urinating a little bit. My prostate's a little big. Like, it's not cancer, but. So just those two things that aren't. They aren't really a big deal. They don't affect my life too much.
D: Are you taking any medications for either problem?
P: I take Avodart.
D: Okay. Okay.
P: And for the reflux, I take a Tums here and there. I used to be on a medication, but it seemed like I kind of figured out the foods that were going to help, so I stopped.
D: Great. That's great. Any allergies to medications, foods, or environmental allergies?
P: No. No.
D: Okay. And any medical conditions that. Running the family, specifically, anything related to the loans?
P: No, not that I can think of.
D: And do you. You mentioned that your grandkids came to visit. Do you live alone?
P: No, I live with my wife.
D: Okay. And are you currently working or are.
P: You.
D: Staying at home?
P: I'm working from home. I'VE gone out a few times to see clients. I work as a financial advisor. I've gone to see a couple clients that are really old and have a hard time doing stuff over the phone or over the computer, but like 95% from home.
D: Have you gone to see any clients in the past three or four days or in the past week?
P: No. No, it's probably been a couple weeks since I saw anyone.
D: Sure. Okay. And do you smoke or did you ever smoke at the past.
P: No, I maybe did for maybe like three years. In my 20s it was. Yeah, I was dumb. Right.
D: Any marijuana or recreational drugs? Any alcohol?
P: I usually have a whiskey or two on the weekends.
D: Okay. All right. So it's sounds like you have some sort of an infection with the fevers and the fatigue and the muscle aches and then the difficulty breathing, of course. And then your sensation, that sensation that you were having of a cold, sort of a sore throat, coughs that you might be getting. We can't necessarily rule out Covid dressed yet. Yeah. And given that you're having difficulties breathing, we're also going to have a look at your chest and do a physical exam, but also do a chest X ray just to make sure. Or just to see if there's anything, an infection that's settling in your chest. And do a Covid swab and then go from there. We'll decide whether you need to stay in the. You need to stay in the hospital if you can go home based on those results. But if you are to go home, we would request that you stay away from. From everyone. So including your wife. Try to self isolate as much as possible. And your results should come out in 24 to 48 hours. And then the public health nurse should tell you what to do if your results are positive.
P: Okay, I know that sounds fair.
D: All right, well, let's do a physical exam and then go from there.
P: Okay. Thank you.
D: You're welcome.
