D: What brings you in here today?
P: I've come in today because I've had this cough. It started three days ago and since that time I've also started to have these headaches and been feeling really kind of achy all over.
D: Okay, so what kind of started first, the cough or the aches?
P: The cough started first.
D: Okay, and is it a dry cough or a wet cough?
P: It's dry.
D: Okay, so you're not bringing up any sputum or blood or anything like that?
P: No, I'm not coughing up any sputum or blood.
D: Okay, that's good. And the muscle aches. So were you doing anything recently, like anything strenuous, increased exercise, lifting anything or any injuries at all recently?
P: No, not nothing I can think of like that.
D: Okay, and where are you getting your muscle aches?
P: It's kind of all over. Feel just generally achy.
D: Okay, generally achy. Okay. And are you getting any kind of headaches or anything like that?
P: Yeah, I've had this headache as well. It's kind of come and gone a little bit over the last couple of days, but had a little bit of a headache each day.
D: Okay, and the headache, where is it exactly located?
P: I feel it right at the front of my. My forehead, kind of on both sides of my head. It feels like a band just squeezing around.
D: Okay, and is it, what kind of pain is it, Is it like aching pain? Is it kind of like a pulsating pain? Pressure like pain. How would you describe it?
P: It's more like pressure.
D: Pressure. Okay. And have you, do you, are you, are you someone that usually has headaches.
P: Every once in a while, but I mean, I don't get them that often. Maybe when I'm sick or don't sleep very well.
D: Okay. Have you tried anything for your pains or headaches?
P: Yeah, I did take some Tylenol and it helped take the edge off a bit. I tried some Advil to it. So the headaches kind of come and gone a little bit, but I think once that wears off it the headaches come back.
D: Okay, and have you tried anything for your cough?
P: No, I haven't tried anything for the cough.
D: Okay, have you had any other symptoms like fevers or chills?
P: I have, I have felt a little bit feverish. Yeah, I haven't had any chills though.
D: Okay, and when did you start feeling feverish?
P: Yeah, maybe within the last couple of days as well.
D: Okay, and did you manage to get temperature at all?
P: No, I just felt really hot.
D: Okay, any other symptoms like runny nose, sore throat, chest pain, anything like that?
P: No, I haven't had any sore throat or chest pain. No runny nose either.
D: Okay. Any shortness of breath?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any recent travel or contact with someone who's been ill?
P: Yeah, I don't think so. I mean, I haven't traveled anywhere and Nori, my family's been sick at home.
D: Okay. Any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any loss of taste or smell? No, no. Any night sweats or fatigue?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any changes in your bowel movements, like, any diarrhea or constipation?
P: Yeah, I have had, actually, diarrhea for the past day as well.
D: Okay. Diarrhea for. And so just for the past day, have you noticed any changes in color or have you noticed any blood in it?
P: No blood in the stool. It's just been really loose.
D: Okay. Have you had any foods recently that. That you've tried, like, for the first time, or have you eaten outside at all?
P: No, my diet's been pretty stable, so. Yeah, I haven't had any changes like that.
D: Okay. Any changes in your appetite at all or weight?
P: I've been less hungry, for sure. Yeah. So I've had a decreased appetite, but my weight's been stable recently, so no changes in weight.
D: Okay. And any exposure to fumes or dust or animals within your home environment or work environment?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Have you been diagnosed with any medical conditions?
P: No, I've been healthy.
D: Okay. Do you take any medications?
P: No, just a multivitamin and a vitamin D. Okay.
D: Any allergies to any medications at all?
P: No, no allergies.
D: Okay. Any allergies to any environmental factors or foods?
P: I do have an allergy to peanuts, and so I carry an EpiPen for that, but that's the only food.
D: Okay. And any hospitalizations or surgeries in the past?
P: I did have surgery, like an ACL repair and knee surgery about 10 years ago.
D: Okay.
P: But, yeah, that's the only surgery.
D: Okay. Any family history of any lung or heart conditions?
P: My dad had high blood pressure and my grandfather had lung cancer. Actually, he was in his 80s when he passed away from that. And he was a smoker his whole life.
D: Okay. Concurrently. Do you work at all?
P: Yeah, I have been working. I work for, like, a pharmacy company, so I've been having to go into the office sometimes to help kind of prepare stuff.
D: Okay. And in your workplace, have you noticed anyone sick at all?
P: No, I don't think. I don't haven't noticed anybody been. Who's been sick, but we've been. There have been other people who've been going into the Office as well.
D: Okay. And do you usually wear masks around other people?
P: Yeah, we've been wearing masks, and there are cleaning protocols and distancing protocols as well, trying to keep everybody safe.
D: Okay. And since you've had these symptoms, have you gone into work at all?
P: No, no, I've actually. I've been off for the. The last couple of days.
D: Okay.
P: And, yeah, I've just been. Been doing what I can from home.
D: Okay, and what's your home situation like? Who do you live with?
P: Yeah, so I live with my. I live with my wife, and we live in a townhouse just right in the city here.
D: Okay, and has she been displaying any symptoms at all?
P: No, she hasn't. She's been. Been feeling good.
D: Okay, that's good. And currently, do you smoke?
P: No, I'm not a smoker.
D: Any recreational drugs, like marijuana?
P: I will sometimes use, like, the CBD or. Yeah, like the oils, but.
D: That.
P: That's it.
D: Okay. And do you drink alcohol?
P: Yeah, I'll have a few beers on the weekend sometimes, like, but that's. That's about it. Maybe, like, three or four beers a week.
D: All right. Okay. So, yeah, those are all the questions I had for you today. Do you have any questions at all?
P: Yeah, I was just worried that could be Covid with how everything's going on, and that's just sort of what I was wondering about today.
D: Yeah. So that's something we definitely want to rule out. Your symptoms definitely overlap with the cluster of symptoms that someone may get with COVID So we will do a swab on you today and recommend that you isolate for 2, 2 weeks until your symptoms have gone. And the test result, you will get back in the next 24 to 48 hours. And alongside your test results, you will also get further instructions from public health about whether or not you need another swab later on and when to return to work.
P: Okay. Yeah, that sounds good. Thank you.
D: Yeah, no worries. And it can definitely also be another viral infection as well, even if it's not Covid, in which case you just need to get some rest, stay hydrated, and let it take its course.
P: Okay, that sounds good. So it could be Covid or, like, another viral illness?
D: Yeah.
P: Okay. Thank you.
D: You're welcome. Take care.
P: Take care.
