D: I was wondering if you could tell me what brought you in.
P: Sure. You know, I've been feeling kind of hot for the past couple of days and I have this terrible, terrible headache. And just my brain feels foggy, so I thought I should come get it checked out.
D: Okay, I see. When did these symptoms start exactly?
P: So they started about three days ago, but it's getting worse.
D: Okay, and in terms of the headache, does your head hurt at any particular location?
P: I would say mostly the sides of my head.
D: Okay, and how long has the headache been going on? For.
P: The same amount of time. So like the past three days.
D: Okay, and how would you describe the headache? Is it like sharp, is it like a vice grip, is it pulsating, a pressure like sensation or.
P: None of those, you know, it feels crampy.
D: Okay, and has there been anything that's triggered the headache or made it worse?
P: I don't think so. Nothing's helping. Sleeping's not helping. Moving around is not helping. It's just always there.
D: Okay. Does the headache get worse with lying flat?
P: No, I wouldn't say so, no.
D: Okay, and are you feeling any pain down into your neck or into your shoulders or back?
P: No. No.
D: Okay, and would you say that this headache was like worst headache of your life or thunderclap kind of sunset sensation?
P: No. No.
D: Okay. Have you had headaches like this before in the past?
P: No, never.
D: Okay, and how would you rate it in terms of severity? With 10 being the most severe that you could possibly have and one being not painful at all? How would you rate it?
P: I would say I would give it around a six or seven.
D: Okay, and have you had any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Okay, and how about any sensitivity to light when you're seeing it, or sensitivity to sound?
P: No.
D: Okay. And have you had any eye symptoms such as discharge, tearing or itchiness?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. And so you mentioned that you had a fever as well. Did you check your temperature?
P: I didn't actually, no, I didn't check my temperature. I just feel hot.
D: Okay, we'll be sure to check that today in clinic. And have you been experiencing any other symptoms?
P: Just the. Like the brain fog that I was speaking of. You know, I just don't remember. I remember things, but it's. It's like I'm doing everything underwater.
D: Okay. Have you been confused or concerns with your memory?
P: No, I haven't forgotten things. It just feels like I'm really slow at doing things.
D: I see. Okay, and how has your energy been? Have you had significant fatigue?
P: Yes, I would say I am Significantly more tired than I used to be.
D: Okay. How has your sleep been?
P: My sleep has been pretty normal. I go to bed around the same time, wake up around the same time. Yeah, I'd say that there's no issue there.
D: Okay. With this fatigue, have you had any aches and pains?
P: Some muscle aches, I would say. Mostly in my arms and just my legs, yeah.
D: Okay. And have you had a cough?
P: No. Cough? No.
D: All right, how about shortness of breath?
P: No shortness of breath either.
D: Okay. Have you experienced any chest pain?
P: No.
D: Okay, how about any periods where you felt as though your heart was racing?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any of you had any wheezing?
P: No. No wheezing.
D: Okay. And have you had any loss of taste or smell?
P: No.
D: Okay. Have you noticed any rashes?
P: No rashes either.
D: All right, and have you had any abdominal pain?
P: No. No.
D: Okay, have you had any diarrhea?
P: No, no diarrhea.
D: Okay, and any constipation?
P: Nope.
D: All right, and then how about any urinary problems such as painful urination or going frequently?
P: No, no changes.
D: Okay. And are you currently sexually active?
P: I am.
D: Okay. Could you tell me about your partners or. Partner?
P: Sure. Just my husband. We. We don't use protection, but I'm on the birth control pill.
D: Okay. And have you had a sexually transmitted infection before?
P: No.
D: Okay. And any, I guess, like vaginal discharge or vaginal discomfort?
P: No.
D: Okay. And so next, I just wanted to ask a few questions about your past health. Have you been diagnosed with any medical conditions in the past?
P: No.
D: Okay, so no diabetes, high blood pressure, anything like that?
P: No.
D: All right, and do you take any medications regularly, like prescription or over the counter?
P: I don't.
D: All right, so just the birth control?
P: Oh, sorry. Yes, just the birth control pills? Yeah.
D: Okay, no worries. And any allergies?
P: Just seasonal allergies.
D: Okay. And are your immunizations up to date?
P: Yep, they are.
D: All right. And in the home, is there anybody who's sick right now?
P: No, no one's sick.
D: Okay. How about at work?
P: I'm a teacher, so I work with a lot of children, but no one that I. No one I know of has been sick.
D: Okay. And so have you traveled anywhere recently?
P: No.
D: Alright, and do you smoke cigarettes?
P: I don't.
D: Okay. Do you smoke marijuana?
P: I don't.
D: Alright. Do you use any recreational drugs?
P: I sometimes take some marijuana edibles, but that's about it.
D: Okay, and do you purchase those at a dispensary?
P: I do.
D: Okay, so from one of the Ontario stores?
P: Yes.
D: Okay, great. Yeah. Because you can never be sure where else Kind of what the dosing is. So it's good to get it from the appropriate stores for sure.
P: Right.
D: And do you drink alcohol?
P: I do. I'll have a glass of wine with dinner.
D: Okay. Is this daily?
P: Most days. I would say maybe like four or five days of the. Seven days of the week.
D: Okay, I see. And has anybody in your family had similar symptoms in the past to what you're having or had any lung conditions in the past?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay, how about any heart conditions?
P: My father passed away at 75 from a heart attack.
D: Okay. And how. How about any cancers in the family?
P: None that I know of.
D: Okay. So I think that was all of the questions that I wanted to ask on history today. Was there anything else that you thought I was missing or that you wanted to tell me about?
P: No, I don't think so. But what do you think I have?
D: So, with the acuity of your symptoms starting within the last few days and getting worse, especially with a fever, which we now have documented of 38.8, and kind of feeling tired with aches and pains and a headache, concerned that you have possibly a viral infection. And one of those possibilities could be COVID 19, but also could be the influenza. It could be something like the common cold, such as adenovirus. So certainly we will do a PCR Covid swab as well as order some general lab work to look at. Look for signs of infection, such as a CBC and a white blood cell count. But for now, we'll get those tests ordered. Did you have any questions?
P: Okay. Yeah, that sounds great. Do you think I could also have meningitis or something? Because I was reading online on Google and that's the first thing that came up.
D: Oh, yeah, you're absolutely right. So sorry. We will go ahead and investigate that as well. And we might need to do a lumbar puncture or some blood work to look for signs of infection that might be needed to be treated with antibiotics.
P: Okay. All right. That sounds good. Thank you.
