D: What brings you in here today?
P: Yeah, I've had this cough, and it's just not going away.
D: Okay, and how long have you been having this cough for?
P: I think it started about a month ago.
D: Okay, and is it a dry cough or is it a wet cough?
P: I'm bringing up some phlegm, if that's what you mean. Yeah.
D: So you're bringing up phlegm when you cough?
P: Yeah.
D: And is it. What color is.
P: Looks pretty dark and. And sometimes red.
D: Okay, so do you think there's blood in your phlegm?
P: Yeah, the dark. It does kind of look like blood, so that's what scared me and wanted me to come in today.
D: Okay, and how much phlegm would you say your putting out, like it per every time you cough?
P: I'd say every time I cough, I'm bringing up at least a teaspoon of the dark sputum.
D: And so this started four weeks ago. Has it been constant, like you've been constantly coughing, or does it come and go?
P: I. It's there pretty much all the time, but especially bad in the morning.
D: Okay, and do you remember if anything changed or you did something differently or anything that happened before you started having this cough?
P: I had a cold a few weeks back, but it was just a runny nose, and it seems that the cough has been kind of lingering around.
D: Okay, and do you find that it's been getting worse at all?
P: Yeah, the cough's been getting worse.
D: Okay, and have you had any previous episodes of this?
P: I've had a smoker's cough now for several. For several years, but it's really just this. This past month that. That it's gotten really bad, and I have it all day long.
D: Okay, and are you coughing every day or every other day? Like, how often would you say you're coughing?
P: Daily.
D: Daily. Okay. Yeah. Is there anything that makes your cough go away or get worse?
P: Nothing that seems to really make it any worse or better.
D: Okay, and do you have any other symptoms like shortness of breath or runny nose, sore throat, anything like that?
P: Nothing I can think of. Just this cough that's been bugging me.
D: Okay. And have you traveled outside of the country at all recently?
P: Yes, I've been working in the Philippines for the last three years.
D: And have you been experiencing any fevers or chills or nights? Sweats?
P: I felt like a little bit hot. I might have a fever now, so yes. No chills, though.
D: Okay. How about night sweats?
P: I've been sweating more at night too. Yeah, I have to get up and Change my pajamas sometimes.
D: Okay. And how often has this been happening?
P: I'm changing my pajamas and sometimes the sheets. Maybe a couple of times per week.
D: Okay. And have you been feeling more tired, more fatigued at all recently?
P: Yeah, my energy has just been really down. I've been really fatigued.
D: And do you find that you ever have any chest pain or shortness of breath?
P: Sometimes I do have some pain over on the right side of my chest.
D: Is this pain? What kind of pain is it?
P: I'd say it's kind of like a stabbing kind of pain, and I only really notice it when I take a deep breath.
D: Okay, and how about shortness of breath? Have you been experiencing anything like that?
P: I only really get short of breath when I'm going for a hike or up to my fourth floor apartment.
D: Any changes in your skin that you've noticed, like, any rashes at all?
P: No rashes.
D: And how about your sleep? Have you been getting enough sleep on a daily basis?
P: Just the sweating at night has been annoying because it wakes me up sometimes, but other than that, sleep has been okay.
D: And how about your appetite?
P: I feel like I've been eating. Okay. Regular diet.
D: And have you had any significant weight changes recently?
P: Yeah, I'm down like £15 over the last few months, and I haven't really made any changes to my diet or exercise, so I haven't been trying.
D: Okay. Any recent infections at all?
P: Just the cold. I was talking about a few weeks ago where the runny nose kind of went away.
D: And have you at all, either here or when you were working in the Philippines, been exposed to someone with tuberculosis?
P: I believe some of the people I was helping over there did in fact have tuberculosis.
D: And have you had a TB skin test done at all recently?
P: I've had one in the past, but I can't really remember the last time. And it was normal, though, when? When I had it a few years ago.
D: Okay. But nothing since you've been back at all?
P: No. The last test must be at least a few years ago.
D: Okay. And in terms of just in your environment, at work and at home, are you exposed to any mold or any pets?
P: No pets at home, and I don't think there's any mold in the home either.
D: Do you notice any kind of tingling or numbness in your limbs or any muscular weakness?
P: I mean, I'm really tired all the time and kind of feel weak that way, but no muscular weakness.
D: And have you previously been diagnosed with any medical conditions like high blood pressure, diabetes? Anything else?
P: Just chronic bronchitis with the Smoker's cough.
D: Okay. And do you take any medications?
P: Yeah, I take a beta agonist inhaler, an inhaled corticosteroid and another type of anti muscarinic inhaler.
D: Okay. And do you have any allergies to any medications?
P: No allergies.
D: Any allergies at all to any environmental exposures?
P: I don't think so, no.
D: Any hospitalization in the past?
P: No.
D: And any surgeries in the past?
P: No surgeries.
D: And have you been in contact with anyone who is ill? I know you mentioned in Philippines you were exposed to some people with tb, but anything since then?
P: Not that I can think. Everybody's been healthy. I've seen.
D: Okay. And in your family, has there been any history of any cancers or heart attacks, any medical conditions?
P: No heart attacks, but my father died of lung cancer when he was 67.
D: And currently do you live in an apartment building? Is there anyone you live with?
P: Yeah, I live with my girlfriend in an apartment.
D: And do you work currently?
P: Yeah, I've been doing some housing work in the Philippines the last several years.
D: And do you currently drink?
P: No, I don't drink alcohol.
D: Any recreational drugs like marijuana?
P: No.
D: Any. And do you smoke cigarettes at all?
P: Yes, I do smoke cigarettes. I've smoked most of my life, similar to my father, probably one to two packs per day.
