D: What brought you in today?
P: Yeah, so just randomly, like, two days ago, I just started having this chest pain when I. When I'm breathing, and it's just been getting worse. And then because of that, I'm finding that I'm very short of breath as well, so I just got really concerned.
D: Okay, I see. When did the chest pain start?
P: So it was. There was some discomfort, like, just two days ago. But then just yesterday, it started getting very, very painful when I was breathing. So, yeah, I would say one day ago.
D: Okay. And were you doing anything at the time when the chest pain started? Like, did you get in a car accident maybe, or any trauma to the chest or anything you can think of?
P: No, not really. I was just at home, and then I. I noticed that when I, like, take a deep breath in, it's just like a very sharp pain. It's kind of like in my right side of the chest, and it feels like it's like a stabbing pain.
D: Okay. And so the pain comes on when you breathe in. Is it.
P: Or.
D: Yeah, when you take a deep breath. Does the pain come on at any other points or does it go away?
P: It's mostly I feel the sharp pain when I breathe in.
D: Okay, so the pain's intermittent then? It sounds like. And has there been anything you've tried that's made the pain better?
P: Not really. Just more shallow breathing. It hurts less with that, but that's about it.
D: Okay, and are there any positions that help make the pain any better, like leaning forward or laying down?
P: Not really. It's pretty much the same, I think.
D: Okay, and you mentioned you had shortness of breath as well. When does this come on?
P: It's pretty like, since. Since yesterday. It's been pretty constant, and it's more like just. I'm really having trouble getting any deep breaths in, so I feel like I'm having to just breathe faster and more shallow.
D: I see. Okay. And has anything like this happened to you before?
P: No, never.
D: Okay. And have you been experiencing any headaches?
P: Nope.
D: How about any viral symptoms like eye redness, nasal discharge or nasal congestion or cough?
P: I've been having a little bit of a cough, but that's it. Like, it's kind of started today, but it's nothing too significant.
D: Okay. Is the cough dry or have you brought up sputum?
P: It's dry.
D: Okay. And have you had a sore throat?
P: No.
D: How about a loss of taste or a loss of smell?
P: Nope.
D: Okay. How has your appetite been?
P: My appetite's been pretty good. It's like, definitely with the pain, I Don't really feel like eating today, but I don't think it's changed.
D: Okay, so has your weight been stable over the last several months?
P: Yeah, weight's been stable.
D: Okay, and have you had any fevers, chills, or night sweats?
P: Nope.
D: Okay. And have you had any episodes where you feel like your heart's, like, racing or beating out of your chest?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: Any dizziness or lightheadedness?
P: Nope.
D: Okay, and have you had any. Any wheezing?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: Okay. And with the cough, have you brought up any blood?
P: Nope.
D: Okay. And have you had any, like, urinary problems?
P: Nope.
D: Any bowel problems like diarrhea or constipation?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: And any. Any abdominal pain?
P: No.
D: Have you had any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Okay. And have you had any muscle aches, joint pains or. Or skin changes?
P: No.
D: Okay. And in the past, have you been diagnosed with any medical conditions?
P: No, I've been pretty healthy.
D: Okay, so do you take any medications regularly?
P: No, nothing at all.
D: And do you have any allergies?
P: No, no allergies.
D: Any hospitalizations in the past or any surgeries?
P: Nope.
D: Okay. And currently, can you tell me just a little bit about your living situation?
P: Yeah, so I just live with a couple of my roommates. I'm going to university.
D: Okay.
P: Live in, like, a student housing situation.
D: Okay.
P: And.
D: Do you. Has anybody in the house been sick or anybody that you've been around been sick?
P: Nope. We've been all pretty healthy.
D: Okay, and do you smoke cigarettes or use any, like, vape products or anything like that?
P: No, I haven't ever smoked. I do smoke weed. Like, I would say once or twice a week.
D: Okay, and how much would you say, like one gram or less or.
P: One gram probably lasts like two weeks.
D: Okay. Okay. And do you drink alcohol?
P: Yeah, just a couple beers, maybe on the weekend.
D: Okay, and are you currently sexually active?
P: Yeah, just one. One partner. My girlfriend.
D: Okay. And have you. Or do you use condoms?
P: Yeah, we use condoms.
D: We're pretty safe. Okay, and have you had a sexually transmitted infection before?
P: No, never.
D: Okay. Any concerns right now or anything like that?
P: No, we've been pretty safe, and we've both been tested before and everything, so I'm not really concerned.
D: Okay, great. And has anybody and the family had, like, a similar presentation before? Like, any lung problems or heart problems?
P: No, no, no. I think my sister, she. She has asthma, but that's about it.
D: Okay. And any cancers that run in the family?
P: Not that I know.
D: Okay, so it sounds like you had this uncomfortable feeling in your chest about two days ago, but the pains really came on yesterday with. And it's really painful when you. When you have a deep, deep breath. So in conjunction with your symptoms of being not able to take a deep breath and being short of breath, it sounds like you possibly have what's called the pneumor thorax. And so we'll do a physical exam and do a chest X ray as well to examine this and check vitals as well to make sure that your work of breathing is okay and maybe do some blood work and go from there.
P: Okay, sounds good. Should I be, like, worried at all?
D: I think right now that you're speaking in full sentences and you're not short of breath at rest. Typically, when this happens, if it's small enough, it'll usually resolve on its own. And so we'll get some more information from the imaging and the lab results. But it's reassuring that you're haven't been getting worse since it happened.
P: Okay. All right, sounds good. Thank you so much.
