D: What brings you in today?
P: Yeah, so I've had this cough that started within the last day and I've also been particularly short of breath as well.
D: Can you tell me about the cough? Is it dry cough or wet cough?
P: It's wet. I've been bringing up a sputum that. It's just. It leaves a really bad taste in my mouth when bringing it up.
D: What color is this? But in.
P: It'S kind of like yellowish green type color.
D: Have you noticed any blood?
P: No, I haven't seen any blood and.
D: It only started yesterday. What about the difficulties breathing? When did that start?
P: Yeah, that started really? Within the last 12 hours or so.
D: And can you tell me if it's gotten better or worse since then?
P: Yeah, it's been getting worse. And phlegm also smells really bad.
D: Okay. When do you have difficulty? Is there anything that makes the shortness of breath worse?
P: Yeah, if I. When I was having a cigarette earlier today, it got a bit worse. And when I went out to get the mail today, I just couldn't do it. I had to just sit down.
D: That's not happened to you before, right?
P: No, usually I'm able to go out and get the mail, no problem. Yeah.
D: Okay. And say two days ago, were you feeling perfectly fine?
P: I was, yeah. I wasn't sick at all.
D: Okay, so you've had this wet cough and you've had some difficulties breathing since yesterday. Have you had a headache at all?
P: No, no headache.
D: Any runny nose?
P: No, it's really no.
D: Any congestion?
P: No, no.
D: Okay. Have you had any pain in your chest?
P: No pain.
D: But you're breathing in or breathing out? Any pain at that time or deep breathing?
P: No, I haven't had any pain.
D: Okay. Have you had any palpitations or you feel like your heart's racing?
P: Yeah, well, I do feel like my heart has been beating a little bit faster.
D: Okay. And any pain in your belly?
P: No.
D: Nausea or vomiting?
P: No, but I guess I have felt a little nauseous with the bad taste in my mouth.
D: Yeah. Okay. And any diarrhea or constipation?
P: No, I haven't had anything like that.
D: Okay. Any sore throat?
P: No.
D: Okay. All right. Any other symptoms that I haven't talked about that you experienced over the past day?
P: No, it's really been. Yeah. This cough and bringing up the sputum and being short of breath.
D: Okay. Can you tell me about your past medical history? Do you have any medical conditions?
P: Yeah, I have high blood pressure. I also have acid reflux, so gerd, I think it's called, and high Cholesterol as well.
D: Okay. Okay.
P: And I've also been. Had issues with anxiety in the past as well.
D: In terms of medications, are you taking any?
P: Yeah, I take an ACE inhibitor, a statin, and medication for my stomach, I think, like pantoprazole.
D: Okay. And how well has your GERD been controlled?
P: It kind of bugs me. Most days it's not so bad. I mean, sometimes I'll get a little bit of heartburn and acid in the. In my mouth, but it depends on what I eat, so I really try to stay away from some. Some foods.
D: So the PPI hasn't completely curbed the. The acid reflux. You still get it?
P: Yeah, I still get it. It's definitely helped, though. It was a lot worse before starting it. I've been on. Been on it now for a few years.
D: Okay. And as for your anxiety, do you ever get panic attacks?
P: No, I haven't had any panic attacks.
D: Okay. All right. Do you have any allergies?
P: No.
D: Okay. So you said that these symptoms started yesterday and they were quite sudden. Was there anything that you were doing yesterday or the day before that was different or unusual?
P: Well, yeah, I mean, yesterday I. Or yeah, I had a bit more to drink than usual. More alcohol, I mean, so. I mean, could that have something to do with it? I'm not sure.
D: It could potentially. Were you drunk and did you pass out?
P: Yeah, I think so. My friends. Yeah, that's what my friends were saying anyway.
D: Okay. And talk about alcohol, how much do you usually drink?
P: Usually like four to six beers a day. But, yeah, yesterday was certainly more than that.
D: Have you considered reducing the amount of alcohol you drink? Has it affected you in any way?
P: I mean, I'm retired now, so I don't know. I feel like it's been fine, maybe. Yeah, I feel like it's been fine.
D: Okay. Okay. I suppose we could talk a little bit more about that later if you want, as four to six years is quite a lot, actually, and it can affect her health in certain ways. But we can chat more about that later.
P: Okay.
D: And do you smoke?
P: Yeah, I smoke half a pack of cigarettes per day. It was well over a pack before, so have cut down a little bit.
D: Oh, that's great. Okay. Do you plan on cutting it down further or do you want to stay right there?
P: Yeah, I have been trying to just too. Too darn expensive these days, so been trying to cut back.
D: Yeah. Yeah, that's fair. All right. What about marijuana? Do you consume marijuana?
P: No, I don't.
D: Any recreational drugs? All right. Do you have any family History of any medical problems?
P: Yeah, my. My father had. He ended up having liver disease actually. He passed away from that, I think, and he had heart problems too. He was a lifelong smoker and didn't really take care of himself.
D: I see. Do you, do you have a family doctor?
P: I do. I haven't seen a family doctor in a number of years now though.
D: Yeah, well, you know, it's a good idea to see your family doctor on a regular basis, especially when you're getting older because sometimes you, you might need changes in your medications or there might be checkups or screenings that they might want to do. It's for your own benefit. You know, maybe even just seeing them once a year would be a good idea. I would definitely recommend that you book an appointment with them just for checkup in the next couple of weeks. Is there a reason why you don't see your family doctor too often?
P: I just haven't been sick and I've been able to refill my prescriptions mostly from just calling in, so.
D: Okay. Okay. I see. Alright. And do you live alone or do you live with other people?
P: Yeah, I live with my wife.
D: Okay. All right. And are you able to take care of things like groceries or finances or shoveling snow or cleaning the house or do you need any assistance with those household activities?
P: Yeah, we moved actually into an apartment last year. It's made it a lot easier in terms of the housework and that sort of thing, but I've been able to, yeah. Do the grocery shopping and share the chores around. Around the house. I do. I'll use a cane sometimes. I injured my knee a number of years ago, but other than that, it. Things are okay.
D: Okay. Okay. Good to hear. That reminds me, have you had any surgeries in the past?
P: Just on my, my left knee. I had a left knee replacement a few years ago.
D: Okay. All right. And have you any. Had. Had any hospitalizations?
P: No.
D: Okay. All right. So sounds like you've had a day of this wet cough with this bad smelling sort of spume that's yellowish green in color. And you've also had difficulties breathing for the past 12 hours, so much so that you can't even go out to get mail. And your heart's been racing. It's possible that while you were drunk that you might have. And given that you have acid reflux that you might have accidentally have something go inside your breathing tube from your mouth or something that came up from your stomach. And sometimes when that happens for food items can. Or other things can get lodged in your lungs and can become can attract bacteria to replicate and cause a bacterial infection. So it's possible that that's what's happened, but it could also be a viral pneumonia or a viral infection in your chest. We'll get a chest X ray done. We'll have some labs done as well and will likely start some antibiotics. Have you recently been on any antibiotics?
P: No, I haven't.
D: And you don't have any allergies to any, correct? Correct. All right. Okay. We'll also do a physical exam, just to give a listen to your lungs and see how they're doing and then go from there. Do you have any questions for me?
P: No, that sounds good. Thank you.
