D: I was wondering if you could start by telling me what brought you into the emergency department.
P: So I came to the emergency department because I've been having pain in my chest.
D: Okay, where is the pain located?
P: I would say it's like the whole. Pretty much the left side of my chest.
D: Okay, and when did this pain start?
P: So I think it started just around two hours ago. I actually was riding my bicycle and just fell off, kind of just slipped. And I think I fell on that side, like, when the impact was right on my chest. And since then it's been really painful.
D: Okay, how would you describe the pain? Sometimes people will use words like burning, dull, achy.
P: I think it's more like someone is just stabbing me in that whole left side area.
D: Okay. And anything that you've been doing that's made the pain worse?
P: If I think I have to take really, really slow and shallow breaths. If I try to take a deep breath, it just really hurts. Like taking those small, smaller breaths helps.
D: Okay. And do you feel the pain anywhere else or is it just on the left side of your chest?
P: No, I would say just on the left side.
D: Okay. And has the pain been getting worse, staying the same, or getting better?
P: I would say over the last two hours, it's been getting worse.
D: Okay, and do you have any other associated symptoms.
P: Like I think I'm having also? Maybe it's just because I'm trying to breathe slowly, but it feels like I can't catch my breath.
D: Okay. Has anything like this ever happened to you before?
P: No, I've never had any pain in my chest before.
D: Okay, did you have a loss of consciousness when you fell off your bike?
P: No, I got right back up. It just had the pain.
D: Okay, so any injuries to the head?
P: No, my head was fine. I was wearing a helmet.
D: Okay, excellent. And any headache right now?
P: Nope.
D: Okay, how about any fever, chills?
P: Nope, I feel. I'm fine.
D: Any nausea or vomiting?
P: Nope.
D: Do you feel as though your heart's racing?
P: Yeah, I would say, like, in the last hour, a little bit more so than usual.
D: Okay. Any skin changes or rashes you've noticed.
P: Besides just. I got some scrapes here and there on my hands, but nothing else.
D: Okay. And do you have a cough?
P: Nope.
D: Okay. And any recent infections?
P: No, I've been pretty. Pretty healthy recently. No.
D: No cough or.
P: No infections.
D: Okay. And any dizziness?
P: No.
D: All right. And I know you mentioned a few scratches on your hands, but any other injuries?
P: No. I think I got off pretty lucky.
D: Okay. And any alcohol or drug intake prior to falling off your Bike?
P: Oh, no, no, I was completely sober. No. No drugs or alcohol.
D: Okay. And any weakness or numbness or tingling that you noticed?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: All right, and when was the last time you had anything to eat or drink?
P: I just had some cereal and just some chocolate milk around breakfast time, but nothing else.
D: Okay, and how many hours ago was that?
P: I would say around three hours ago.
D: Okay. And have you been diagnosed with any medical conditions in the past.
P: Other than just a hay fever, but nothing, Nothing else? I have, like, a lot of allergies.
D: Any allergies to medications?
P: Just sometimes when I take, like a nasal spray, I think I might have an allergy to the steroids that they give me and sometimes also some of the antihistamines. I think I get some allergies from them.
D: Okay. And any hospitalizations?
P: No, never.
D: Any surgeries?
P: Nope.
D: Okay. Anybody in the family who have any illnesses?
P: Just my father. He has type 2 diabetes, but nothing else.
D: Okay. And how do you support yourself currently, financially?
P: So I work just as, like a mechanic just in the city, and currently I just have myself to support. I live alone in an apartment, so I'm doing fairly well.
D: Okay. And do you smoke?
P: I smoke around, like, I would say two and a half to three packs per day. I know it's. Yeah, I've tried quitting before, but I would say I've been smoking since I was 18.
D: Okay, and do you smoke marijuana?
P: No. No. No marijuana, no other drugs.
D: Okay. And do you drink alcohol?
P: Yeah, just, like, sometimes on the weekend I'll just have a beer or two while watching the game, but nothing regular.
D: Okay, thank you.
