D: Can you just tell me what brings you in here today?
P: Yeah, my chest is really hurting.
D: Okay, and where. Where does it hurt exactly?
P: It's hard to say the exact location, but more on the left side of my chest.
D: Okay, and is it like. What kind of pain is it. Is it like a dull, aching pain or is it a sharp or stabbing pain?
P: The pain is. It's stabbing, but also it feels really, really tight in my chest.
D: Okay, and if you had to rate it on a scale of 0 to 10, 0 being the least amount of pain you felt in your life and 10 being the worst, how much would you rate it?
P: I think a six.
D: A six. Okay. And when did it start?
P: It started this morning, just right after I got out of bed.
D: Okay, so you weren't doing anything like, you weren't doing any activities, you just woke up from sleep?
P: Yeah, I got out of bed, was just starting to get dressed, and all of a sudden got this tightness and stabbing pain on the left side of my chest.
D: Okay, and approximately how many hours ago was that?
P: I would say about six hours ago.
D: Okay, and has it been. Has the pain been getting worse at all?
P: It's. It's getting worse.
D: It's getting worse. Okay, and have you had any similar sort of pain in the past before?
P: Nothing like this before?
D: No. Okay. And is the pain going anywhere else or is it just staying in your chest?
P: The pain is just in my chest.
D: Okay. And does anything that you do make it feel better?
P: Sitting up tends to make it feel a bit better.
D: Okay, and does anything you do make the pain get worse?
P: It gets worse every time I breathe in.
D: Okay, and what kind of pain do you get when you breathe in?
P: It's a sharp, stabbing pain.
D: Okay, and apart from the pain, are you having any other symptoms like a cough or shortness of breath, anything like that?
P: Yeah, with the pain, I'm having a hard time breathing.
D: Okay. Okay, A few other questions. Have you recently had any kind of trauma or injury to your chest at all?
P: No.
D: Okay. Have you traveled at all recently?
P: I was in Italy for the past three weeks. I actually just got back last night.
D: Okay, and have you been experiencing any kind of nausea or vomiting or fever or chills?
P: No, no nausea or vomiting. And I did take my temperature. No.
D: Or.
P: Sorry, I did not take my temperature, but I have been having chills the last few days.
D: Okay. And yeah, just curious, have you been having any kind of swelling at all in your feet or ankles?
P: My legs felt a bit swollen on the way back on the airplane, but they tend to Swell. So I didn't think anything of it.
D: Okay, so they have swollen up before, but you saw them swollen this time as well? Yeah.
P: Yeah.
D: Okay. And have you been feeling at all fatigued at all?
P: I've been really tired with all of the traveling, so I think maybe I'm just jet lagged.
D: Okay. Have you noticed at all your heart racing, like any palpitations?
P: Yeah, since this morning, it's felt like my heart is racing.
D: Okay. Have you noticed any skin changes at all, any rashes?
P: No rashes.
D: Okay. Have you noticed any cough, coughing at all?
P: I've had a cough since last week, but it feels much worse today.
D: Okay, and has there been any kind of green, slimy mucus in your cough at all?
P: No, it's been a dry cough.
D: Dry cough. Okay, and have you noticed at all coughing up blood?
P: No blood.
D: Okay. And have you recently had any infections in the last month?
P: Yeah, a couple weeks ago I had a. A runny nose and sore throat and a little bit of a headache, but I feel better from that now.
D: Okay, and did it just go away by itself or did you have to take any medications?
P: It just went away on its own.
D: Okay. Have you been feeling any kind of dizziness at all?
P: A little bit of dizziness when I. When the pain gets really bad.
D: Okay. And I know you mentioned some swelling in your legs, in your ankles, but have. Has any of your legs been hurting at all?
P: My left leg hurts really bad right now, but my entire body has been achy this past few days.
D: Okay, and. And your right leg, do you know where it hurts?
P: I'd say just like in the calf.
D: In the calf. Okay. Okay. And do you have any past medical history, any, like, hypertension, like diabetes, any conditions that you've been diagnosed with?
P: No, I'm healthy.
D: Okay. Any allergies to medications?
P: No allergies.
D: Okay. Do you take any birth control or multivitamins?
P: Yeah, I take a daily birth control pill and also a daily multivitamin.
D: Okay. And how long have you been on the birth control.
P: For? Two years.
D: Okay. Any hospitalizations recently?
P: None that I can think of.
D: Any ill contacts?
P: No.
D: Any surgeries in the past?
P: No surgeries.
D: Okay. In your family, has anyone had any conditions? Like, has anyone passed away from a heart attack, any cancers, anything like that?
P: No cancer, but my mother died of a heart attack when she was 43, and my grandma also had a heart attack when she. When she was younger, I want to say in her 50s, but I don't exactly remember how old.
D: Okay. And currently, right now, where do you live? Do you live in, like, a house? Apartment.
P: Yeah, I live in an apartment by myself.
D: Okay. And do you currently work?
P: Yeah, I'm in charge of a retail store as a manager there.
D: Okay. And do you drink?
P: Sometimes on weekends or if I'm socializing with friends, but not very often.
D: Okay. And do you use any recreational drugs, like marijuana?
P: Never.
D: Okay. And do you smoke?
P: Yes, I smoke about two packs of cigarettes per day, and I've been smoking since I was 12.
D: Okay. All right. And in terms of your daily routine, like, do you get any exercise?
P: Not really. Life's a bit too busy and hectic right. Right now, unfortunately.
D: Okay. And how about your diet? Like, what. What does your regular diet look like?
P: All right, a lot of fast food. I know I could work on that. But again, with the busy lifestyle, we tend to eat a lot of fried foods and fatty foods. I know I could do better.
D: Okay, great. Thank you.
