D: I was wondering if we could start with you telling us what brought you in.
P: Sure. I've had this terrible headache for the past four days. It doesn't seem to be getting any better, and I feel hot, like I have a fever. I've been coughing a lot, so I'm worried. I have Covid. So I'm here.
D: Okay, so I'll start with the headaches. When it. When did that exactly start?
P: The headache started? Okay, so the coughing started four days ago. The headache started shortly after, so I would say later on during that day. And then the fever I've had for fever, I think I've had for the past two days. I haven't actually taken my temperature, though.
D: Okay, so the cough started four days ago. Has the cough gotten better, worse, or stayed the same?
P: The cough has stayed the same.
D: Okay, are you bringing up any phlegm or sputum with the cough?
P: It's not really phlegm, but sometimes I cough up, like, bits of, like, you know, little bits that look like blood or something.
D: Okay, so you're seeing some, like, red when. When you're coughing up.
P: Mm.
D: Okay. And how much of this are you seeing? Like, is it like, a teaspoon amount or. Or more?
P: Oh, it's. It's very little. It's, like, maybe a little bit bigger than, like, the tip of a pencil.
D: Oh, okay. Are you. Okay. Are you seeing this on, like, kind of tissues afterwards sort of thing?
P: Yeah.
D: Okay. And any triggers for the cough you can think of?
P: No, it just seems to be there all day. Doesn't really get better with me trying to rest or not.
D: Okay, and is the cough there at nighttime, too?
P: Yes, it is definitely there at night.
D: Okay. Is it interfering with sleep?
P: Yes. I haven't been sleeping well.
D: Okay, and with your cough, have you had any difficulties with breathing?
P: No.
D: All right. And how about any wheezing?
P: No wheezing.
D: Okay. And with this headache, when it first came on, did you experience a, like, worst headache of your life or a thunderclap sensation?
P: No, it's not that bad, but it just seems to be there all day long.
D: Okay. Have you had headaches like this before?
P: No, I've never gotten headaches in the past.
D: Okay, Is the headache associated with any nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Okay. And is the headache worse in the morning when you first wake up?
P: No.
D: Okay. And does the headache get worse if you lie flat?
P: No.
D: Okay. And has this headache been getting worse, staying the same, getting better?
P: It's about the same.
D: Okay, and you haven't checked the temperature yet. You said but you felt hot?
P: Yes, that's right.
D: Okay. Any other symptoms that you've been experiencing?
P: Not that I can think of.
D: Okay. There's just a few others that I wanted to ask about. To be comprehensive, have you had any eye pain or ear pain?
P: No.
D: How about any discharge from either your eyes or ears?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: All right, have you had any changes to either your sense of smell or your sense of taste?
P: No.
D: Alright. And have you had a runny nose at all?
P: No.
D: And how about a sore throat?
P: No.
D: Okay. And have you had any chills?
P: No chills.
D: How about night sweats?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: I see. Okay. And over the last few months, has your weight changed?
P: No, not that I noticed.
D: Okay. Have you been feeling tired or fatigued?
P: No.
D: Okay. And have you had any chest pain?
P: No.
D: All right, and how about any heart palpitations?
P: None.
D: Alright, and any episodes of feeling really dizzy or lightheaded?
P: No.
D: Okay. And how about any fainting spells or feeling like you might faint?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. And have you had any abdominal pain?
P: No, no abdominal pain.
D: Any diarrhea or constipation?
P: No.
D: How about any painful urination or feeling as though you need to urinate really frequently?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. And have you had any skin changes, like rashes or anything like that?
P: No.
D: Okay. And how about any muscle aches or joint aches or just overall like body pains?
P: No, not that I. Not that I've noticed, no.
D: Okay. And is there anything in regards to your past health that you see a physician regularly for?
P: No, actually, I think at one point I was worked up for something called familial hypercholesterolemia because it ran in the family, but I think those results were normal.
D: Okay. So do you take a statin medication then?
P: I take a. Yeah, I take a low dose statin.
D: Okay. And when was your last lipid panel checked?
P: I think it was two years ago.
D: I see. And do you remember if the LDL was normal at that time?
P: Yes, it was normal.
D: Okay. But since the. It was about two years ago, it might be worthwhile today just to also check a lipid panel just to be safe. But that'll be something. We can talk about that more so at the end, if that's okay.
P: Sure, yeah, that would be great.
D: Okay. And any other medical conditions?
P: No.
D: Okay. Have you had any surgeries before?
P: C section.
D: Okay. And how many children do you have?
P: Just the one.
D: Okay. And were there any complications with the C section?
P: No, no complications.
D: Okay. Any reasons for hospitalizations?
P: Nope.
D: Okay. And any allergies to medications?
P: No.
D: All right. Any medications besides the statin that you take?
P: Nope.
D: Okay. And in regards to your family history, have there been people who've had early heart attacks or strokes in the family?
P: No.
D: Okay. But you do have familial hypercholesterolemia. Do you have family members who have that?
P: Yes. Okay, so my aunts had it, as well as my mother.
D: Okay. And has there been any lung conditions that run in the family?
P: No lung conditions.
D: How about any malignancies or cancers?
P: There was colon cancer on my dad's side of the family, but I'm not too sure who had it.
D: Okay. Have you heard of anybody having breast cancer?
P: Breast cancer? No.
D: All right, and how about ovarian cancer?
P: No ovarian cancer.
D: Okay, and next, I just wanted to ask a few questions about your personal and lifestyle habits.
P: Sure.
D: But first, could you just tell me a little bit about your living situation?
P: Right now I live with my husband and my one son.
D: Okay. And. Sorry, how old is your son?
P: He is 10.
D: Okay. Has anybody in the home been sick recently?
P: No.
D: Okay. How about anybody at work?
P: At work? No. No one's been sick.
D: Okay. Have you traveled anywhere recently?
P: We went to. We just went to, like, a. We went on a hiking trail that was outside the city recently, and there were a lot of people there, and we weren't wearing masks, but we. It seemed like we were keeping a good distance between each other, so that. That would be my only concern.
D: Okay. For sure. Were people pretty close to each other on the paths when walking by on the hike?
P: Not like the whole time, but there would be times when, you know, people just kind of brushed by you to try to get ahead of you or something like that.
D: I see. Okay. And do you smoke cigarettes?
P: No.
D: Do you smoke marijuana?
P: No.
D: Okay. And do you drink alcohol?
P: I don't.
D: Do you use any other recreational drugs?
P: No.
D: Okay. So that was all I wanted to ask about. Oh. Actually, one thing that I did want. I forgot to ask was do you have any neck stiffness?
P: No, not that I noticed.
D: Okay, so that was the last question that I wanted to ask about. Was there anything that you wanted to tell me that I maybe forgot?
P: No, I think you covered it all. I'm just wondering, do you think it's Covid or something else?
D: Well, it's definitely a possibility with the symptoms that you're having, since they can be so nonspecific. For Covid, it can be a lot of symptoms that overlap. So with having headache, what sounds like you might have a fever, and this cough that sounds like it's pretty bad. If you're bringing up some blood, it sounds like you might have irritated some of the bronchioles with the coughing. So we will test for that and check a PCR nasal swab for Covid. But we will also test for other viral illnesses and bacterial illnesses as well. It doesn't sound like you have meningitis right now just based on the symptoms, or you don't have neck stiffness. But it'll be certainly something that we keep in mind while we are doing our investigations.
P: Okay, great. Thank you.
D: All right. You're welcome. We'll get those started.
P: Okay, Sounds great.
