D: Brings in here today.
P: Yeah. So I bring in my daughter because over these last several months, she's had this cough that comes on. It'll be at nighttime or sometimes after in gym class. And I know during these episodes she'll have really hard time kind of catching her breath. And sometimes we'll have a wheeze as well. And it's just gone away quickly in the past, but been noticing it happening more often recently.
D: Okay, so it's been going on for the last few months, but it's kind of getting worse.
P: Yeah, exactly. Yeah.
D: And how about the coughing and the wheezing? Does she have any kind of shortness of breath?
P: Yeah, she will. Like when it comes on? Yeah, she has some shortness of breath.
D: Okay. And does this happen at all, like, when she's exposed to dust or kind of after exerting herself?
P: Yeah, it does. Yeah. I think the. Like, the first time that I was made aware of it was. Yeah. In gym class. So it would have been after some exercise and dust. I'm not sure.
D: Okay. Does she have a dry cough or a wet cough when she gets these spells?
P: Dry, dry.
D: Okay. Does she bring up any sputum or blood at all?
P: No.
D: Okay. And are her symptoms at all constant or do they come and go based on how much she's exerting herself?
P: They come and go, yeah. Like, most of the time she's been okay, but sometimes she'll get a cough at nighttime, too.
D: Okay. So. And then has. Does anything make. Help you with your symptoms at all or her symptoms?
P: Not really, no.
D: Okay.
P: Just resting, I guess. Sorry. Yeah, just. Just trying to relax.
D: Okay. And any other symptoms like fevers or chills or sore throat, chest pain, anything like that?
P: No, nothing like that. Yeah, just the wheeze.
D: Okay. Any loss of sense of taste or smell?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any recent travel?
P: No.
D: Any contact with anyone who has been sick recently?
P: She has a younger brother that goes to daycare, and I know those kids can be sick all the time, but her brother's been okay.
D: Okay. Does she complain of any kind of headaches or nausea or vomiting?
P: No, she doesn't.
D: Okay. Any. Have you noticed any fevers or chills?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any night sweats?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any changes in her bowel movements, like constipation or diarrhea?
P: No, she hasn't had any changes like that.
D: Okay. And any kind of changes in her sleep or appetite?
P: No, she's been eating well and gaining weight.
D: Okay. Any. So she's been gaining weight. Any exposure to any mold, dust, new rugs or animals at home?
P: Yeah, we do have two cats at home.
D: Okay.
P: Yeah, there are animals at home.
D: Okay. How long have you had them? For?
P: About just under a year, so. Yeah, just under a year.
D: Okay. Okay. Has she been diagnosed at all with any medical conditions in the past?
P: No, no. When she was born, she had to go and just be observed for a few. A couple days for jaundice. She didn't need to have any therapy for it. It went away on its own, but that's about it.
D: Okay. And any complications during your pregnancy with her?
P: No, everything was normal. And it was a vaginal delivery at term.
D: Okay. Any issues with the development? Was she meeting her milestones and her growth? Meeting her muscles on her growth chart as well?
P: Yeah, all of that has been normal.
D: Okay. Any allergies to medications or environmental factors that you know of?
P: Not to any medications that I'm aware of, but she hasn't been tested. But she does get symptoms that kind of change with seasons. Like, she'll get a runny nose and some itchy eyes at different times throughout the year.
D: Okay. Okay. Any medications that she has been on at all.
P: So when that happens, she'll just use, like. Just take a. Like a reactant or like, I don't know, something like that. But just an allergy pill. But, yeah, that's it.
D: Okay. And any hospitalizations or past surgeries?
P: No, luckily she's been healthy that way.
D: Okay. Any family history of any lung or heart conditions?
P: I think yeah, her grandfather has diabetes, but that's it.
D: Okay. And currently, what's her home situation? Like, who does she live with?
P: Yeah, so she lives with myself and her father and then younger brother. Yeah, us four.
D: Okay. Okay. And does anyone smoke in the household?
P: No, they don't.
D: Okay. Okay. So those were all the questions I had. Do you have any questions?
P: No, I just wanted to figure out what was going on with this cough.
D: Okay. Yeah. So it seems like these symptoms have been going on for a few months now. It seems that she gets them on exertion and they're worsened by exertion at this age. One thing that definitely we want to check is if she has asthma, she does have some other symptoms that are associated with asthma. Like, it seems that she gets some irritation through environmental factors as well. So what we'll do for her is get something called a pulmonary function test for her to see. They'll test if she, in fact, has asthma or not. And then based on that, we will see if she needs any puffers that can help relieve some of her symptoms. And lastly, since she's having a cough. We'll also do, like, a COVID test just in case as well. Okay?
P: Yeah, that sounds good. Thank you.
D: Yeah, no worries. And then we'll also do, like, a full physical examination.
P: That sounds great.
D: All right.
