D: What brings you in today?
P: Yeah, I brought my son here. I'm a little bit worried about him because, like yesterday he. He had this temperature of like 38.5. So he's been feeling a little bit hot and he's not swallowing his food. Like, we've been feeding him some mashed up food, but he's not swallowing it. He's just kind of throwing it back out there. He's drooling now and he sounds kind of muffled and he's been very short of breath.
D: That doesn't sound good. I'm currently looking at him and he doesn't look great. While the doctors taking his vitals and examining the baby, I'll just ask you a couple of questions.
P: Sure.
D: So you said that all of this started about a day ago. How was he doing before that?
P: He was fine before that. He had like an infection, like a. Some sort of viral infection. Recently, like about a week back, he had like a runny nose and a cough, but that went away.
D: Okay, so he had these symptoms about a week ago. Did he see any. Did you take him to the hospital or to a clinic?
P: I took him to our family doctor and they just suggested some supportive care treatments which we've been doing at home. Like, we try to keep him well hydrated and we've been keeping an eye on his, like, wet diapers and things like that.
D: Okay, has he been. Has he been. How many diapers is he. Are you changing a day?
P: Usually like about 5, 6, but yesterday it was like 2.
D: Okay, and has he been irritable or agitated?
P: He has been very irritable and fussy.
D: Have you been sleeping? Okay?
P: No. You know what? Last night he didn't sleep well at all. He was crying the whole night.
D: And in terms of. So how much has he had to eat or drink in the past day or two?
P: He's had about like maybe a bottle of his milk. Like if that.
D: Okay.
P: Yeah, that's it. Yeah. He's not taking, he's not, he's not taking anything else. Like he's been so fussy and so, like he's unwilling to try anything.
D: Okay. And. Okay. Do you feel like he's been drowsy and lethargic?
P: Yeah, I feel like he's been a little bit lethargic. Like today he's more lethargic. All of yesterday was very fussy and irritable, but today seems like he's very slow.
D: Okay. And just a couple questions about his past medical history. Does he have any medical conditions that he was diagnosed with?
P: No, he's been healthy. Otherwise.
D: How was your pregnancy with him?
P: Normal?
D: Yeah.
P: No complications there.
D: Did you have GBS or gestational diabetes?
P: No. No.
D: Okay. Did you have any viral infections during that time, during pregnancy?
P: No. No.
D: Was he born via cesarean section or a C section or a vaginal birth?
P: A vaginal.
D: Okay. Any complications during birth?
P: No.
D: Was he kept in the hospital for a couple days in the NICU after he was born?
P: No.
D: Did he develop jaundice?
P: No.
D: Okay. And he's been okay for the past two years. Any concerns about his growth, his height and weight, and his head circumference? Has your family doctor said anything about that?
P: No, he's been pretty good. He's been growing and gaining weight. Okay.
D: Any developmental issues?
P: Nope.
D: Okay. All right. And any medical conditions that run in the family?
P: No. Just, like, some heart issues.
D: Okay. And does he. I forgot to ask. Has he had any hospitalizations in the past?
P: No.
D: Any surgeries?
P: No surgeries.
D: Has he been on any medications, any antibiotics recently?
P: No.
D: Okay. Has he been vaccinated? Has his vaccination immunizations up to date?
P: Yeah, they're all up to date so far.
D: Okay. All right, That's. That's good. Okay.
P: And.
D: Does he have any allergies that you're aware of?
P: Pardon me?
D: Any allergies?
P: Oh, no allergies.
D: Okay. All right. Well, it looks like it's great that you brought him into the emergency room. If he hasn't been eating, drinking well, hasn't slept well, has been fussy and has been lethargic and tired and is having difficulty swallowing food, that's definitely very serious. We'll have a look inside his mouth and see what's going on. It could be that he has an infection or an inflammation of some sort. Given his fever, he probably has infection and will likely start him on antibiotics and put in an IV drip just to get him. Get some fluids inside him, just to get him hydrated, and monitor him very closely. We'll also check his vitals and we'll do. Yeah, we'll go from there. Do you have any questions?
P: No. Thank you.
D: Okay.
