D: So what brings you in here today?
P: Yeah, so I brought my 7 year old daughter here because she's been coughing a lot over the past two weeks. She sounds wheezy and I'm not too sure what's going on with her. So she's been off school because I think it's Covid. We got her swab, but because she still has symptoms, she can't go back to school. So here she is.
D: Okay, and when did the cough start?
P: It started two weeks ago.
D: Okay, and when did the wheezing start?
P: That started about the same time. Like I should, I should mention, she does have like episodes like this. She's had episodes like this for the past like two years, but they usually go away in a couple of days. But this time it's taking a lot longer to go away.
D: Okay, so it's been. Has it been more than a week, you said?
P: Yeah, it's been close to two weeks now.
D: Two weeks. Okay. And were these symptoms brought on by. Are they usually brought on by any kind of like activities, or can they come up just by themselves?
P: I find it's usually worse in the winter. And if she's like doing some sort of like extensive physical activity. So if she's like playing tag and she's running around a lot, or if she's like at her gym class and they're running.
D: Okay, and the cough that she's having, is it like a wet cough or is it a dry cough?
P: It's a dry cough.
D: Okay, and at all, is she bringing up any yellowish or white or green material or any blood at all?
P: It's no, nothing like that.
D: And are her symptoms constant or do they come and go?
P: Her symptoms, I guess come and go. Yeah, they come and go.
D: And how many days of school has she had to miss?
P: She's missed almost two weeks now.
D: Wow. Okay. And when she's at home, is she mean, is she like very tired? Is she.
P: Yeah.
D: How is she at home?
P: Yeah, she's pretty tired out. Yeah, she's pretty tired out. She's been doing a lot of like, resting and, you know, watching tv. She's not really very active right now.
D: Okay, and have her symptoms been getting worse over the last two weeks or are they getting better at all?
P: I can't, you know, I can't tell. It comes and goes. So in that sense it's been pretty constant. There hasn't been a day when she hasn't had these symptoms.
D: Okay, and do they get worse at night at all or are they the same throughout the day?
P: Yeah, now that I think about it, when she's laying down, she does have a hard time.
D: Okay. And is she having any other symptoms at all, like shortness of breath or sore throat, anything like that?
P: No sore throat. She sounds wheezy, so she might have, like, some difficulty breathing, but she doesn't sound short of breath.
D: Okay. And any kind of runny nose or any other symptoms at all?
P: No.
D: Okay. Anything that helps her or makes her symptoms better?
P: No, nothing that we've tried.
D: Any recent travel at all?
P: No.
D: Any fainting or dizziness spells?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any fevers or chills?
P: No.
D: Any changes in our bowel movements, like, any constipation, diarrhea?
P: No.
D: Any urinary problems?
P: No.
D: And any. Any kind of. Do these symptoms wake her up at night at all?
P: No, no, it doesn't wake her up at night. It just makes it hard for her to fall asleep.
D: I see. Is she getting enough sleep, like, how many hours would you say on average she's getting?
P: I'd say she's getting about six to seven hours. She used to sleep about eight hours before.
D: Okay. And is she having any changes in her appetite at all?
P: I don't think so, no.
D: No. And any kind of changes in her weight at all over the past few months?
P: I haven't checked over the past month, but before that? No, no changes.
D: No changes. Okay. And has she been. Has she had, like, a cold or anything like that recently?
P: No, not that I can think of. Okay.
D: Has she been around anyone that's been sick recently?
P: No.
D: Okay. Does he have any past history of any medical conditions at all?
P: No, no, nothing like that.
D: Okay, and does she have any allergies to any medications or any environmental allergies?
P: I think she might have some environmental allergies. We haven't gotten her officially tested, though.
D: Okay, and has she had any previous hospitalizations or surgeries when she was a baby?
P: When she was first born, she was hospitalized for something about having, like, not fully developed lungs.
D: Okay, and was she premature at all or was she born after that term?
P: She was slightly premature. I believe she's 34 weeks.
D: 34 weeks. Okay. And was it a vaginal delivery or was it a C section?
P: It was vaginal.
D: Okay. Were there any complications during the pregnancy or after she was born?
P: No complications after besides the hospitalization for the small lungs.
D: Okay. And is there any family history of any lung conditions, heart conditions, or cancers?
P: Nope, nothing like that.
D: Has anyone in the family have had any kind of asthma, eczema, anything like that?
P: No.
D: No. Okay, so. And in terms of at school, are there any kind of complaints and any issues with her development over the last few years?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay, so she's been growing well?
P: Yeah, she's been growing well. She's been gaining weight, like, normal amount. And she's doing well. She was doing well at school.
D: Okay. And at home, what is the environment like?
P: She lives at home with both of us, like her mom and her dad, and she has a younger sibling who is four years old.
D: Okay, and does anyone smoke in the house at all?
P: No, not anymore.
D: Okay, how long ago did someone smoke?
P: It was. So her dad used to smoke and he stopped when she was like three.
D: Okay, that's good. Any kind of dust or mold or animals? Anything in the household?
P: No, we don't have any pets and the place is just renovated, so nothing like that.
D: Okay, great. So, yeah, those were just some of the questions that I had for her today. Do you have any questions or concerns?
P: Yeah. So what can we do for her right now to make these symptoms go away?
D: Yeah, so what we should do for her right now is she's seven years old. What I'm thinking right now, with her symptoms, especially coming on after exertion, being worse in the winter, she may have asthma, although she doesn't have any family history of it. It can happen without family history as well. So we would like to try and do what's called a pulmonary function test that will help us kind of understand if she has asthma or not. And then we can try her on what's called a short acting beta agonist. So it's a puffer. And usually when she gets these types of symptoms, she can use the puffer to help her. And if it helps her, then it's most likely that she does have asthma and she will need that puffer. And then she might also need another puffer, which is an inhaled corticosteroid for the future to decrease the likelihood that this asthma gets worse in the future.
P: Okay. Okay. Yeah. Thank you.
D: Yeah, no worries. And yeah, so we'll get those tests done and then go from there.
P: Okay, sounds great.
D: Take care.
P: You too.
