D: What brings you in today?
P: Yeah, I've had the sore throat that's been really bugging me the past four days, and I've had a cough as well.
D: When did the cough start?
P: Yeah, so the cough started last week, actually. And then. And then I got the sore throat afterwards.
D: Okay, and is it a dry cob or a wet cough?
P: It's dry.
D: Okay. And has it gotten better or worse or stayed the same since last week?
P: It's gotten a little bit better.
D: Okay, that's good. And the sore throat started four days ago. Are you having any difficulties swallowing at all?
P: Yeah, it's really sore.
D: Okay. And I guess going back to the cop, does it make it difficult for you to fall asleep at night or does it wake you up in the middle of the night?
P: No, it hasn't done that.
D: Okay. All right. Other. And I guess the sore throat, has it just gotten worse over the past four days or has it been kind of the same or better?
P: Yeah, it's gotten a. It's gotten a little bit worse over the last few days.
D: Okay. Do you have any other symptoms like headaches, stuffy nose, runny nose, any sort of discharge from your eyes, red eyes, any pain in your ears, anything like that?
P: Yeah, that. You mentioned that. Yeah, I have had, like, some itchy eyes, that and a runny nose. I was sneezing quite a bit last week, but that has kind of gone away now.
D: Okay, and you were sneezing last week and you had itchy eyes, and that's gone. Okay. So all you have right now is that cough and sore throat. Okay.
P: Yeah, and I've been really, like, achy and tired as well.
D: Have you had any fevers or chills?
P: Yeah, I felt feverish these last two days. No chills.
D: And have you had any changes in your sense of smell?
P: No, I haven't.
D: Changes in your sense of taste?
P: No.
D: Okay. All right. And any chest pain?
P: No, I haven't had any chest pain.
D: Difficulty breathing?
P: No.
D: Any, I guess, headache, or any pressure in your cheeks or your head when you bend down or squat down?
P: No, I haven't felt anything like that.
D: Okay. Any belly pain, nausea or vomiting? Any changes in your bowel movements or any urinary symptoms?
P: No.
D: Okay. All right. And do you have any medical conditions that you've been diagnosed with?
P: I've had tonsillitis a few times in the past. The last time happened about six months ago. I'm wondering if I have strep throat.
D: How often do you get tonsillitis?
P: So I've had it four times. Yeah, Four times in the last few years.
D: Do you still have your tonsils or have you.
P: I do, yeah. I do, yes. Yeah.
D: Okay. And any other medical conditions?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any surgeries?
P: No.
D: Have you ever been hospitalized?
P: No.
D: Okay. And when you were younger, would you have a lot of infections when you were a child or when you were born? Were you born prematurely? Were there any complications at birth?
P: I did have a couple of ear infections when I was younger, but I haven't had any since.
D: Okay. And no pneumonia or anything like that, right?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Any history of asthma or eczema or allergic rhinitis?
P: No, I haven't heard of those before.
D: All right. Are you taking any medications?
P: No, I'm not.
D: Were you given any antibiotics six months ago when you had your tonsillitis?
P: I was, yeah. I think like amoxicillin.
D: Okay, right. And do you have allergies to food or environmental allergies or allergies to any medications?
P: Yeah, I have allergies to peanuts. Yeah. I do get anaphylaxis from it or I'll get, like, hives and throat swelling. And so I do carry an EpiPen. I haven't had to use it, though.
D: That's good. That's good. And just a couple questions about, I guess, more general questions. Who do you live with and where? Do you live in a house or an apartment?
P: Yeah, I live in a house with my parents and older sister.
D: Okay. And are you. Are you currently smoking or have you ever smoked in the past?
P: No.
D: Okay. Also, I just want to remind you that these questions will remain confidential between you and me in case you're worried no one's gonna find out about what we're talking about unless you. Unless there's concern about harm to you or harm to anyone else. Do you feel safe at home?
P: I do, yes.
D: Okay. Are things going well at school? Any bullying? Are you happy with your grades?
P: Yeah, everything. I mean, school is school, but it's been good.
D: Okay. And you said you don't smoke. Have you tried any other. Any recreational drugs? Any marijuana?
P: No, I haven't.
D: Okay. Any alcohol?
P: No.
D: Okay. And are you sexually active?
P: No, I'm not.
D: Okay. All right. Have you had contact with anyone who might be sick?
P: I don't think so. I've been going to, but I mean, we've been going back to school recently, but nobody's been off.
D: You've been doing schooling in person then?
P: Okay, yeah.
D: All right. Any medical conditions that run in your family? Anything related to the lungs or otherwise?
P: No.
D: Okay. Alright. Well, those are all the questions I had for you. So it sounds like last week you had itchy eyes, runny nose, you were sneezing, and you had a dry cough. And then over time, some of those symptoms resolved and you continued to have a cough that was also getting better. But you then developed a sore throat, and you have been feeling feverish over the past two days. Did you check your temperature last week?
P: I didn't check it last week, but checked it yesterday, and it was 38.22, I think. But, yeah, those are the symptoms that I've been having.
D: So it sounds like your symptoms have evolved quite a bit over the past two weeks. It could be potentially that you had a viral infection initially and you might have a superimposed bacterial infection, but we don't know that for sure. We will do a physical exam, have a listen to your chest, have a look inside your mouth, look at your throat. We. I guess the original symptoms you had last week seemed a little bit different. It could be pharyngitis. Maybe. What you have right now could potentially be pharyngitis with a sore throat and the fever that you've developed over the past three or four days. So I'll definitely have a look inside your throat as well. And if necessary, we could do a rapid strep test. And we would also have to do a COVID test, just in case. And I would recommend that you quarantine at home. The results should come out in the next 12 to 20, 24 to 48 hours. Just self isolate, stay away from other family members, and you'll find out the results. If it's positive, someone will call you from public health and then let you know what to do.
P: Okay. Yeah, that sounds good.
D: All right.
P: Thank you.
D: You're welcome.
