D: What brings you in?
P: Yeah, so I just came in because I've been having this cough that's getting worse over the last one and a half week. And I've also just recently in the last few days been getting some shortness of breath. And I also noticed my bowel movements have changed a little bit as well over the last week.
D: Okay, so yeah, let's break this down. The cough, when did that start?
P: The cough? I think it started probably like around 10 days ago.
D: 10 days ago. Okay, and how about the shortness of.
P: Breath that just started in the last, I think, three days.
D: Okay, and then the bowel. Bowel changes. When did that start?
P: Yeah, so I think it also started in like, I would say the last three days. I've been getting diarrhea.
D: Okay. Okay, so let's go back to the cough. Is it constant or is it triggered by certain things like the cold air, dust, you know, certain times of the day, like morning, evening?
P: I would say it's pretty, pretty constant since the last like the 10 days. There's no real pattern to it. And I've mostly just been inside my house. I don't think there are any triggers or I don't own any pets or anything like that. No new rug, slight, like no new changes really in my house.
D: Okay. Okay. And have you tried anything to make it better?
P: No, not really. I've done some home remedies, like trying to do one of those steam masks and see if that helped, but it didn't really do anything.
D: Okay, and how about the quality of that cough? Is it, does it sound harsh?
P: Yeah, I would say it's getting a little bit harsh. It's more just like. I'm not bringing anything up. It's more like a dry cough. But yeah, I would say it's getting worse, definitely.
D: Okay, is it a dry cough then? Or are you producing a little bit of sputum or blood or anything like that?
P: No, no, I haven't seen any blood at all and rarely do I bring like up some sputum. But like most of the times it's just a dry cough.
D: Okay, that's a dry cough. And would you say the cough's getting worse?
P: Yeah, I would definitely say in the last three to four days I've been just coughing non stop. It's very irritating.
D: Yeah. Have you experienced anything like this before?
P: Probably a few years ago. I think I caught the flu or something and got really sick with a fever and just a lot of coughing, but since then, nothing else.
D: Okay. The shortness of breath, one to Ten. Ten being the worst. How bad is it?
P: Probably like a five. It kind of just started out with three days ago, was kind of like I just couldn't take deep breaths. Like, I noticed that my breathing was getting a little bit more. More shallow. And now it's. Especially when I'm coughing. It's like I really have to sit down and catch my breath.
D: Yeah. Does anything make the shortness of breath worse? Like, I guess, you know, exertion, laying down, anything like that?
P: Not really. Maybe, like, sitting down helps sometimes, but even when I'm sitting down, I'm still coughing.
D: Okay. Okay. And do you have any wheeziness?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: Okay. Any chest pain.
P: Maybe from all the coughing? Sometimes I feel like there's some pain there, but not anything that's too painful.
D: Okay. Do you feel like your heart's racing at all?
P: No, not really.
D: Have you noticed any swelling in your limbs?
P: No, I haven't noticed anything like that.
D: Okay. How about pain in your calves when you walk a few blocks?
P: No, I've been fine that way.
D: Okay. Dizziness or fainting spells?
P: No, not really. I thought maybe with the shortness of breath that would happen, but, like, so far that hasn't happened to me.
D: Okay. Any fevers or chills?
P: No. Maybe like a few chills. Like, I'm not sure, actually. It was hard to tell, but I haven't had any fevers.
D: Okay, we'll take your temperature today just to make sure. Any weight loss over the past few weeks?
P: No, probably weight gain.
D: Okay. Any changes in your hair, nails or skin, like rashes?
P: No, I haven't noticed anything like that.
D: Okay. Any changes in your vision or hearing?
P: No, no, that's all been fine.
D: How about loss of smell or taste?
P: No, I haven't had. I think my taste and smell are still pretty good. No issues there.
D: Okay. Have you had a runny nose or a stuffy nose?
P: No, no, no. No congestion, really.
D: Okay. And have you had a sore throat at all?
P: No, no sore throat.
D: Okay. Any issues swallowing food?
P: No.
D: No changes in your appetite?
P: Maybe just a little bit. Like, I don't really feel like eating when I'm coughing all the time, but other than that, no, not really.
D: Okay. How about nausea or vomiting?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Constipation?
P: Nope.
D: Diarrhea? Right. How often are you having a bowel movement? Right now?
P: I would say, like, I've been going probably more than eight times a day. Probably in the last few days. Ten times a day.
D: Oh, wow. Okay. And each time, are you producing A lot of stool or is it just a little bit each time?
P: Like a little bit, but it's mostly liquidy.
D: Okay. Any solids at all? Like, is it semi solid at all?
P: Maybe a little bit, but mostly it's just liquid.
D: Okay. Any blood in the stool?
P: No, I've been checking. I haven't noticed any blood or changes in color. It's mainly just liquid diarrhea.
D: Okay. Any changes in your urine?
P: No, no.
D: Okay. Any confusion or memory loss?
P: No, not that I know of.
D: Okay, how about muscle aches or joint pains?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. And are you otherwise healthy or do you have any long standing medical conditions?
P: So I do have diabetes and high blood pressure.
D: Okay. Do you take any medications for those conditions?
P: Yeah, so for diabetes I'm taking this medication called like, I think Metformin. And then for the blood pressure, I think it's. I forgot the name. I think it's something like Ramapril or something like that.
D: Yep. Okay. And you're taking that as directed, right?
P: Yeah, I've been taking that regularly and my blood pressure, I've been measuring. It's been pretty steady. No changes.
D: Okay, that's good. Have you had any hospitalizations or surgeries in the past?
P: I did have my appendix removed, probably in my 20s, but that was the only thing.
D: Okay. And do you have any allergies?
P: No, not really.
D: Are you up to date with all your immunizations?
P: Yep.
D: Are you on any other medications besides Theramipril and Metformin?
P: Just like multivitamins for men over 50.
D: Okay. Okay. Any family history of heart conditions or lung conditions that you know of?
P: Yeah, so my family, like, diabetes is pretty big. It runs in the family. And my father in his 60s, like, died from a heart attack. Other than that, not anything else I can think of now.
D: Okay. Any cancers in the family?
P: No, I don't think so.
D: Okay. Do you smoke?
P: I used to. I quit probably five years ago, but before that I used to smoke probably a pack a day for more than 20 years.
D: Oh, okay. Well, good job for cutting down and quitting. Yeah, yeah. Do you do marijuana at all?
P: No, no, no, no drugs?
D: Any other recreational drugs? You said no, right?
P: Yeah. No, no, I don't do any drugs.
D: Okay. Do you drink alcohol?
P: Yeah, I probably have maybe some whiskey, maybe a couple times a week.
D: Okay. And where do you live right now?
P: So, yeah, I just live in the city, in London in an apartment with my. Just my wife.
D: Okay. Is she also sick or is she okay?
P: No, she's been completely fine and I've been Kind of isolating myself from her over the last week.
D: Okay, well, that's good. And that's smart. Just because you don't know what you have, right? Yeah. Okay. Can you think of any other sick contacts that you may have had over the past week? One or two weeks or even three weeks.
P: I go to the grocery store, then I go to work. I haven't noticed anyone being sick at work, but, you know, you never know, like, who comes in asymptomatic and, like, they might be carrying it with this virus. Like, I mainly get worried about COVID and, you know, just how fast that's spreading. Everywhere.
D: Yeah, for sure. Yeah, for sure. Have you traveled to anywhere recently?
P: No, I've been in Canada, Ontario. Haven't left to go anywhere.
D: Okay. Okay. Well, those are all the questions that I had for you. Did you have any questions or did you have any concerns? Anything that you wanted to discuss today?
P: Yeah, no, I just was wondering if I can get the COVID test. I was just. I wanted to make sure. I don't give anyone Covid if I do have it.
D: Yeah, for sure. I think that's a good idea. So. And it's definitely something that we need to rule out. So we'll do a Covid swab today, and you'll hear back within 24 to 48 hours. But in the meantime, regardless of whether you actually have Covid or not, because your symptoms overlap with COVID Covid, it's good to isolate for 14 days, and that includes trying to isolate from your wife as well, if possible. And public health should be in touch if it's positive to do contact tracing. And if it's not Covid, it's probably another viral illness that's going around at this time of year. If your symptoms get worse, you know, you're having neurological symptoms or. Or your fever gets really high, or you're having a lot of trouble breathing, then you should go see the er. How does that.
P: If my breathing gets worse, I'll just go to the emergency department.
D: Yes, please do.
P: Okay. Sounds good.
D: Yeah. All right. Take care.
P: You, too. Thank you.
