D: What can I do for you today?
P: Hi, yeah, thank you for seeing me. I just came in today because I've been having for the last week this cough. And recently I also started noticing that I've been having some diarrhea as well.
D: When did the cough start?
P: The cough started around five days ago, and it got worse, but now I think it's a little bit better.
D: What about the diarrhea?
P: The diarrhea started just two days ago, and I'm having to go, like, almost eight to 10 times in the last two days.
D: And what is. What does your stool look like? Is it completely watery?
P: Yeah, it's mostly watery.
D: And what color is it?
P: Just normal color? No, it's not dark or anything like that.
D: Okay. Any blood that you've noticed, anything red?
P: No blood.
D: And you've had this cough, but your cough is getting better. What's the cough like? Is it a dry cough or a wet cough?
P: It's more of a dry cough.
D: Have you coughed up anything at all, like blood or any mucus?
P: No, no, I haven't coughed up anything.
D: Okay. And other than the cough, have you had any other, like, flu, like, symptoms? Have you had, like, a runny nose or stuffy nose, sore throat, any of those symptoms?
P: No, none of those. But I have also been having, like, a little bit of a headache as well in the last few days.
D: Where's your headache?
P: Just in the. Like, on my forehead, on both sides.
D: What is it?
P: Aching sensation.
D: And how bad is your headache? From 1 to 10. 10 being the worst headache ever right.
P: Now, probably a 5, but it was probably like a 7 yesterday.
D: Do you feel like your headache's getting better.
P: Right now? Like, today I took Tylenol, so I don't know if it's just better because of that.
D: I see. And have you taken any other medications to help with your symptoms?
P: No.
D: Okay. Have you had a fever or chills?
P: I. No, I haven't felt any fever. Rituals.
D: Okay. And have you had any chest pain or any difficulties breathing?
P: No.
D: Okay. Have you had any nausea or vomiting?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Any pain in your belly?
P: Just, like, a little discomfort with going to the washroom so much.
D: And any muscle aches in your body?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any numbness or tingling in your arms or feet?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Any change in your sense of smell?
P: Maybe a little bit. I haven't. Really? Yeah, I would say in the last few days, maybe a little. Like, I've been able to smell less.
D: Any change in your sense of taste?
P: No.
D: Okay. Have you. Have you been in Contact with someone who you think could potentially be sick?
P: No, not that I know of. I do go to work in person. Unfortunately, I can't work from home, but I haven't noticed anyone sick around me, though.
D: And what do you do for work?
P: So I work at, like, a car shop.
D: Okay. And do you wear a mask and maintain social distancing?
P: Yeah, most of the times. I would say we're pretty strict with that. Sometimes when we're in our office, I take off my mask, but usually when we're seeing other people or within close proximity, we keep the masks on.
D: Okay. And do you. I guess, who do you live with at home?
P: I just live with my wife.
D: Do you think she might have had any exposures?
P: No, she's been fine. She doesn't have any symptoms. She's a school teacher. Right now she's working from Canada.
D: Okay. And do you smoke at all or have you smoked in the past?
P: Yeah, I do. Or I used to smoke in my 20s and 30s, but I quit.
D: How much did you smoke back then?
P: Probably half a pack a day.
D: And for how many years?
P: Probably like 15. 15 years.
D: Okay. Do you smoke marijuana or have you smoked in the past?
P: I've tried it a couple times. I don't really like it.
D: Any recreational drugs?
P: No.
D: Alcohol?
P: Yeah, I probably have a beer every day.
D: Do you have any medical conditions that you've been diagnosed with?
P: I take medications for blood pressure and high cholesterol.
D: What do you take?
P: I take this medication called. It's like a Lipitor. And then I take Ramapril for the blood pressure.
D: Any allergies to food, environmental allergies, or any allergies to medications?
P: Not that I know, no.
D: Okay. Any medical conditions that run in the family?
P: Um, so I think diabetes runs in my family, but I. I don't have it, and I think that's pretty much about it. On my dad's side, on my mom's side, there was someone, like my aunt did have ovarian cancer.
D: Okay. And have you. I guess, have you. I forgot to ask earlier. Have you had any surgeries or hospitalizations?
P: I had a surgery to remove my appendix in my 20s, and since then, no surgeries or hospitalizations.
D: Okay. All right. And I guess that's all the questions I have for you. You haven't had any difficulties breathing, right?
P: No.
D: No. Okay. Do you. Okay. And you've had diarrhea for two days. How's your appetite? And have you been eating and drinking okay?
P: Appetite's pretty okay. Like, I feel like I've been more hungry with the diarrhea, I feel like I need to eat more.
D: It's also important with the diarrhea to drink lots of fluids and to make sure that you're not losing important minerals and. And you're not losing, like, sodium or potassium in diarrhea and other things like calcium that could create problems. So continue to eat well and continue to drink lots of water, I guess. So. What we'll do is we'll do a Covid swab, just to. Just to check if you have Covid or not. We'll also do a few labs to see how your electrolytes are, do your vitals to see if you have a fever, measure your heart rate, and do a physical exam, and then go from there. And I'll talk to my attending as well, and we'll come back and discuss the management plan with you.
P: Okay? Sounds good. Thank you so much.
