D: So what brings you in here?
P: Yeah, I've had this sore throat. It started really yesterday, and I've been having problems with eating and drinking.
D: Okay, so it just started yesterday. Has it occurred before?
P: Not this painful before.
D: Okay, so. And you're having. Are you having any trouble swallowing? Just solids or liquids as well?
P: It hurts to swallow both when I have something really cold. It helps. I mean, it's easier to drink, but it still hurts.
D: Okay, and are you having any other symptoms besides the sore throat?
P: Yeah, I've been nauseous and I vomited a couple of times.
D: Okay. This within the last day?
P: Yeah, this is all over the last day. I've vomited like three times yesterday and once today.
D: Okay, and what was the color of the vomit? Was it just food that you had eaten or was it green? Can you describe it? A little bit?
P: Yeah, so the first two times it was more of what the food that I had eaten. And then the last two times it's been more yellowish green. Haven't really eaten much since yesterday afternoon.
D: Okay, and did you notice any blood in it at all?
P: No blood.
D: Okay, and do you have any idea of what caused the nausea, vomiting? Like, were you. Was it after eating or, like, were there any triggers?
P: I. I think the first time was associated with, like, after eating, but I'm not sure. But the other ones.
D: Okay, and with your sore throat, are you having any kind of like a gag reflex or anything like that?
P: Yeah, maybe a little bit. Maybe that's what it's kind of. Yeah, maybe that prompted it.
D: Okay, and are you having any. So has your sore throat been just constant or does it come and go?
P: It's been pretty constant.
D: Yeah. And how much would you rate the pain out of one to 10? One being the least pain you felt in your life, 10 being the worst?
P: I would say six. It's pretty painful.
D: Have you noticed any kind of swelling around your neck or any redness in your throat?
P: Yeah, I felt my neck this morning in the front of it. It does feel swollen.
D: Okay, and are you coughing at all?
P: No, I haven't had a cough.
D: Okay, and so no cough. But are you producing any sputum or yellow material?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Are you coughing up any blood at all?
P: No.
D: Is there anything that makes it better or worse that you have tried?
P: Just cold drinks.
D: Okay, and so you've also. You've had nausea and vomiting. Are you having any kind of diarrhea or constipation?
P: No, but my. I've had a sore stomach.
D: Okay, and did that also start Yesterday?
P: Yeah, it's just been, like, fairly generalized. Feels sore.
D: Okay. So not in any particular area, just kind of all over your stomach?
P: Yeah. Like, I mean, I guess, sort of like in the center.
D: Okay.
P: More so, but. But I can't really put one finger on the spot.
D: Okay. And is it constant or does it come and go?
P: It kind of comes and goes.
D: Okay. And is it associated with eating food at all or does it get better when you defecate?
P: I haven't noticed anything like that. Maybe it. It's worse after vomiting those few times.
D: I see. Okay. Yeah. So, yeah, sometimes with the vomiting, you can also get some discomfort. Any changes, like. So no diarrhea or constipation though, right?
P: No.
D: So are you having any other symptoms, like shortness of breath or. Or chest pain or, like a runny nose? Any of those symptoms?
P: No, nothing like that. I've just had a headache as well, but it's pretty mild.
D: Okay. Have you tried any medications at all? Over the counter?
P: Yeah.
D: I took.
P: Tylenol because I was feeling a little bit hot as well. Helped me sleep last night.
D: Okay. Have you been having any fevers or chills?
P: Yeah, I felt hot, but no chills.
D: And did you manage to get, like, a temperature at all? No. Okay, we can do that here today. So you just felt like, a bit hot like last night?
P: Yeah, yeah, last night I felt pretty hot.
D: Okay.
P: We're sweaty.
D: Okay. Any. Have you been in contact with anyone who's been sick or any recent travel at all?
P: I mean, not that I can think of.
D: Okay. Any other. So I'm just going to list a few symptoms. Just let me know if you have any of them. Do you. Do you feel fatigued? No. Do you feel any kind of that. You have any kind of swelling in your extremities or any rashes or skin changes?
P: No, I haven't noticed anything like that.
D: Okay. Any changes in your urinary pattern?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any changes in your sleep or appetite?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any significant weight loss over the last month?
P: No, my weight's been the same.
D: Okay, and have you. Before this all started, have you had any, like, congestion, runny nose, or any other cold like symptoms?
P: No, I felt well, otherwise.
D: Okay. Do you have any past medical conditions like asthma or anything else? No.
P: What? Yeah.
D: No. Okay, so you're healthy?
P: Yes.
D: Okay. Do you have any allergies?
P: No, I don't.
D: Okay. Are you currently taking any medications regularly? No. Any previous hospitalizations or surgeries? No. Any family history of any lung conditions or heart conditions or any cancers?
P: No, Nothing like That.
D: Okay. And currently, do you work?
P: No, I'm just going to school.
D: Okay. And do you. So currently, where do you live and who do you live with?
P: Yeah, so we live in a house with my parents and younger brother. We've been both back at school now part time and doing some of it at home online as well.
D: Okay. Yeah. So anyone at all that you notice at school that was sick around you?
P: Not that I am aware of.
D: Okay. So, yeah, this is just a question that we ask everyone. Do you drink alcohol or smoke cigarettes or use any recreational drugs?
P: No.
D: Okay. Yeah. So those are all the questions I had to ask you. Any. Anything that I may have missed or anything you want to tell me?
P: No, that's. That's everything that that's been over the last couple of days.
D: Okay. All right. So, yeah, there's. It seems that from your age and some of your symptoms, we will definitely do a testing for strep throat, and it seems that you meet that criteria. And we also want to make sure, since you're having other symptoms as well, just to do a COVID test just in case. And it's just been happening for one day. It doesn't seem that you're. We'll take your temperature as well, and we might give you some antibiotics as well for. To treat you and relieve some of those symptoms. So, yeah, just hang tight. We'll get the swab done for you for the COVID test as well as strep throat, and then we'll go from there. Great.
P: Thank you.
D: You're welcome. Take care. Take care.
