D: How can I help you today?
P: So I just came in today. I've been just feeling like my head's just been hurting for the past three or four days. And I also felt really cold throughout the day for the last few days as well. So I did end up checking my temperature just yesterday afternoon, and it was 38.7 degrees Celsius.
D: Okay, well, tell me about the headache. Where exactly is it?
P: Yes, it's kind of just throughout, like the front of my forehead, and it kind of goes to the side into my temple.
D: And what does it feel like?
P: It feels like a constant aching. I've had migraines before, but they, like. It's not like the pulsating sensation that I usually get with them.
D: I see. Okay. And how severe is the pain? If you had to radiate from 1 to 10.
P: More than like, severe. It's definitely less severe than my migraines, but it's just constant. It's just been there for the last four days. I would say probably six out of 10.
D: Did you do anything for the pain? Did you take any medications, anything that makes it better?
P: Yeah, I took a Tylenol. I took Advil. It helps for like a few hours and then it just comes back.
D: And anything that makes the pain worse.
P: I definitely think just if I rest, it's better, but if I'm like, I can't concentrate on work or, like, doing.
D: Okay. And other than the fever and the headaches, have you had any cough? No, no Cough, runny nose or congestion?
P: No.
D: Sore throat?
P: No, not really.
D: Changes in your sense of smell?
P: I do actually feel like I am eating my smile today.
D: And sense of taste?
P: I just had breakfast today, so breakfast was okay. I didn't. But yeah, definitely a sense of smell.
D: Okay. And any difficulties breathing?
P: No.
D: Okay. Any chest pain?
P: No.
D: Do you feel like your heart is racing?
P: No.
D: Any diarrhea or constipation?
P: No.
D: Nausea or vomiting?
P: No.
D: Pain in your belly?
P: No.
D: Any muscle aches or joint pains?
P: No, nothing like that.
D: Okay. Do you feel like your neck is stiff?
P: No.
D: Any numbness or tingling in your arms or fingers or toes?
P: No.
D: Any night sweats or weight loss? Unintentional?
P: No. I've probably been gaining weight.
D: Okay. Any fluid in your. Any sort of swelling in your legs?
P: No, not that I've noticed.
D: Okay. Any medical conditions that you've been diagnosed with?
P: Yes, I have type 2 diabetes. I was just recently started on Metformin.
D: Medication when you started on Metformin.
P: So I think around. It's been around two months.
D: Okay. How's that going for you? Are you tolerating it okay?
P: Yeah, I've been tolerating it. Well, it's just, they said like, I'm kind of just on the edge of the diabetes, like my levels, so they just want to act proactively.
D: Yeah, that's good. Any other medical conditions?
P: No, that. That's all.
D: Okay. Any medications other than metformin that you take anything over the counter?
P: So I do take. When my migraines get bad, I do take. I have taken naproxen before.
D: Okay. Any surgeries? No surgeries, hospitalizations. Okay. Any allergies to medications, foods or any environmental allergies?
P: Not to any medications, but I do have an allergy to peanuts.
D: Okay, what happens?
P: I do get like an anaphylactic reaction.
D: Okay. Okay. And any family history of any medical conditions?
P: So on my dad's side, they like all the men seem to have diabetes. So it's good that I'm starting on the medication on my mom's family. They're pretty healthy. I don't think my mom has any medical conditions.
D: And do you currently live alone or do you live with other people?
P: Yes, I live with my wife. I live with my two kids, a son and daughter.
D: And have you or any of them had any exposures to anyone who could possibly be sick?
P: Just so my wife is a school teacher and they did have a. In person just. She's a high school teacher and they had some. They have in person classes. So yeah, I don't know. But she's been feeling well. My kids are feeling well too.
D: Okay. And have you traveled anywhere outside the province?
P: No.
D: Okay. And do you currently smoke or did you ever smoke in the past?
P: No, I've never smoked. I do smoke marijuana, just maybe once or twice a month with some friends.
D: Okay. Any recreational drugs?
P: Sorry, no.
D: Any alcohol?
P: Yeah, probably drink a couple beers during the weekend.
D: Okay, got it. All right, well, given your symptoms, we would like to do a Covid swab. Just request a Covid swab be done through public health just to rule it out. Your symptoms do sound like or overlap with some of the symptoms that are seen in patients who do have Covid. It could be that you have just. Just I guess like your headache and fever. I'll also, like, do a physical exam to see there's nothing else going on. But in the meantime, I'd like you to self isolate and stay away from the rest of your family members as well, at least until the results are out. And then when the results are out, if it's positive, you'll receive more guidelines from Public health as to what you need to do.
P: Okay, sounds good. And I work from home, so I don't need to.
D: Oh, that's good. Okay. If you work from home. Good.
P: Thank you.
